doc/nrf/config_and_build/board_support/board_names.rst, before:

.. _app_boards_names:
.. _programming_board_names:

Board names
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The following tables list all boards and build targets for Nordic Semiconductor's hardware platforms.

The build target column uses several entries for multi-core hardware platforms:

* For core type:

  * ``cpuapp`` - When you choose this target, you build the application core firmware.
  * ``cpunet`` - When you choose this target, you build the network core firmware.

* For usage of Cortex-M Security Extensions (CMSE):

  * Entries without ``*_ns`` (``cpuapp``) - When you choose this target, you build the application core firmware as a single execution environment that does not use CMSE (:ref:`Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) <ug_tfm>`).
  * Entries with ``*_ns`` (for example, ``cpuapp_ns``) - When you choose this target, you build the application with CMSE.
    The application core firmware is placed in Non-Secure Processing Environment (NSPE) and uses Secure Processing Environment (SPE) for security features.
    By default, the build system automatically includes :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) <ug_tfm>` in SPE and merges it with NSPE.

Read more about separation of processing environments on the :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` page.

.. _app_boards_names_zephyr:

Boards included in sdk-zephyr
*****************************

The following boards are defined in the :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/` folder.
Also see the :ref:`zephyr:boards` section in the Zephyr documentation.

.. _table:

+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Hardware platform | PCA number | Board name                                                        | Build target                          |
+===================+============+===================================================================+=======================================+
| nRF52 DK          | PCA10040   | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52832 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52832>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52832``                  |
| (nRF52832)        |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52810 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52810>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52810``                  |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52805 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52805>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52805``                  |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52833 DK       | PCA10100   | :ref:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833 <zephyr:nrf52833dk_nrf52833>`           | ``nrf52833dk_nrf52833``               |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52833dk_nrf52820 <zephyr:nrf52833dk_nrf52820>`           | ``nrf52833dk_nrf52820``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52840 DK       | PCA10056   | :ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`           | ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``               |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52811 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52811>`           | ``nrf52840dk_nrf52811``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52840 Dongle   | PCA10059   | :ref:`nrf52840dongle_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dongle_nrf52840>`   | ``nrf52840dongle_nrf52840``           |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:52         | PCA20020   | :ref:`thingy52_nrf52832 <zephyr:thingy52_nrf52832>`               | ``thingy52_nrf52832``                 |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF21540 DK       | PCA10112   | :ref:`nrf21540dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf21540dk_nrf52840>`           | ``nrf21540dk_nrf52840``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF5340 DK        | PCA10095   | :ref:`nrf5340dk_nrf5340 <zephyr:nrf5340dk_nrf5340>`               | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet``          |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``          |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``       |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:53         | PCA20053   | :ref:`thingy53_nrf5340 <zephyr:thingy53_nrf5340>`                 | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``           |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp``           |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``        |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF5340 Audio     | PCA10121   | :ref:`nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340 <zephyr:nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340>` |  ``nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``  |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF9160 DK        | PCA10090   | :ref:`nrf9160dk_nrf9160 <zephyr:nrf9160dk_nrf9160>`               | ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160``                 |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns``              |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf9160dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf9160dk_nrf52840>`             | ``nrf9160dk_nrf52840``                |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF9161 DK        | PCA10153   | :ref:`nrf9161dk_nrf9161 <zephyr:nrf9161dk_nrf9161>`               | ``nrf9161dk_nrf9161``                 |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf9161dk_nrf9161_ns``              |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

.. note::
   In |NCS| releases before v1.6.1:

   * The build target ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns`` was named ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns``.
   * The build target ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` was named ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuappns``.

.. _app_boards_names_nrf:

Boards included in sdk-nrf
**************************

The following boards are defined in the :file:`nrf/boards/arm/` folder.

+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Hardware platform | PCA number | Board name                                               | Build target                          |
+===================+============+==========================================================+=======================================+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20041   | :ref:`nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840``           |
| Gaming Mouse      |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20044   | :ref:`nrf52dmouse_nrf52832 <nrf_desktop>`                | ``nrf52dmouse_nrf52832``              |
| Mouse             |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20045   | :ref:`nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810``           |
| Mouse             |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20037   | :ref:`nrf52kbd_nrf52832 <nrf_desktop>`                   | ``nrf52kbd_nrf52832``                 |
| Keyboard          |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA10111   | :ref:`nrf52833dongle_nrf52833 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52833dongle_nrf52833``           |
| Dongle            |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA10114   | :ref:`nrf52820dongle_nrf52820 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52820dongle_nrf52820``           |
| Dongle            |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:91         | PCA20035   | :ref:`thingy91_nrf9160 <ug_thingy91>`                    | ``thingy91_nrf9160``                  |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``thingy91_nrf9160_ns``               |
|                   |            +----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`thingy91_nrf52840 <ug_thingy91>`                   | ``thingy91_nrf52840``                 |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF7002 DK        | PCA10143   | :ref:`nrf7002dk_nrf5340 <nrf7002dk_nrf5340>`             | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet``          |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``          |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

The :ref:`nRF21540 EK shield <ug_radio_fem_nrf21540ek>` is defined in the :file:`nrf/boards/shields` folder.

Commit message:

doc: shields: add list in Board names
Added a table listing all shields in sdk-nrf.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/config_and_build/board_support/board_names.rst, after:

.. _app_boards_names:
.. _programming_board_names:

Board names
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The following tables list all boards and build targets for Nordic Semiconductor's hardware platforms.

The build target column uses several entries for multi-core hardware platforms:

* For core type:

  * ``cpuapp`` - When you choose this target, you build the application core firmware.
  * ``cpunet`` - When you choose this target, you build the network core firmware.

* For usage of Cortex-M Security Extensions (CMSE):

  * Entries without ``*_ns`` (``cpuapp``) - When you choose this target, you build the application core firmware as a single execution environment that does not use CMSE (:ref:`Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) <ug_tfm>`).
  * Entries with ``*_ns`` (for example, ``cpuapp_ns``) - When you choose this target, you build the application with CMSE.
    The application core firmware is placed in Non-Secure Processing Environment (NSPE) and uses Secure Processing Environment (SPE) for security features.
    By default, the build system automatically includes :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) <ug_tfm>` in SPE and merges it with NSPE.

Read more about separation of processing environments on the :ref:`app_boards_spe_nspe` page.

.. _app_boards_names_zephyr:

Boards included in sdk-zephyr
*****************************

The following boards are defined in the :file:`zephyr/boards/arm/` folder.
Also see the :ref:`zephyr:boards` section in the Zephyr documentation.

.. _table:

+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Hardware platform | PCA number | Board name                                                        | Build target                          |
+===================+============+===================================================================+=======================================+
| nRF52 DK          | PCA10040   | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52832 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52832>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52832``                  |
| (nRF52832)        |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52810 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52810>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52810``                  |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52dk_nrf52805 <zephyr:nrf52dk_nrf52805>`                 | ``nrf52dk_nrf52805``                  |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52833 DK       | PCA10100   | :ref:`nrf52833dk_nrf52833 <zephyr:nrf52833dk_nrf52833>`           | ``nrf52833dk_nrf52833``               |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52833dk_nrf52820 <zephyr:nrf52833dk_nrf52820>`           | ``nrf52833dk_nrf52820``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52840 DK       | PCA10056   | :ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52840>`           | ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``               |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf52840dk_nrf52811 <zephyr:nrf52840dk_nrf52811>`           | ``nrf52840dk_nrf52811``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF52840 Dongle   | PCA10059   | :ref:`nrf52840dongle_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf52840dongle_nrf52840>`   | ``nrf52840dongle_nrf52840``           |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:52         | PCA20020   | :ref:`thingy52_nrf52832 <zephyr:thingy52_nrf52832>`               | ``thingy52_nrf52832``                 |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF21540 DK       | PCA10112   | :ref:`nrf21540dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf21540dk_nrf52840>`           | ``nrf21540dk_nrf52840``               |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF5340 DK        | PCA10095   | :ref:`nrf5340dk_nrf5340 <zephyr:nrf5340dk_nrf5340>`               | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet``          |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``          |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``       |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:53         | PCA20053   | :ref:`thingy53_nrf5340 <zephyr:thingy53_nrf5340>`                 | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``           |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp``           |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``        |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF5340 Audio     | PCA10121   | :ref:`nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340 <zephyr:nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340>` |  ``nrf5340_audio_dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``  |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF9160 DK        | PCA10090   | :ref:`nrf9160dk_nrf9160 <zephyr:nrf9160dk_nrf9160>`               | ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160``                 |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns``              |
|                   |            +-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`nrf9160dk_nrf52840 <zephyr:nrf9160dk_nrf52840>`             | ``nrf9160dk_nrf52840``                |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF9161 DK        | PCA10153   | :ref:`nrf9161dk_nrf9161 <zephyr:nrf9161dk_nrf9161>`               | ``nrf9161dk_nrf9161``                 |
|                   |            |                                                                   |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                                   | ``nrf9161dk_nrf9161_ns``              |
+-------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

.. note::
   In |NCS| releases before v1.6.1:

   * The build target ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns`` was named ``nrf9160dk_nrf9160ns``.
   * The build target ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` was named ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuappns``.

.. _app_boards_names_nrf:

Boards included in sdk-nrf
**************************

The following boards are defined in the :file:`nrf/boards/arm/` folder.

+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Hardware platform | PCA number | Board name                                               | Build target                          |
+===================+============+==========================================================+=======================================+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20041   | :ref:`nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52840gmouse_nrf52840``           |
| Gaming Mouse      |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20044   | :ref:`nrf52dmouse_nrf52832 <nrf_desktop>`                | ``nrf52dmouse_nrf52832``              |
| Mouse             |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20045   | :ref:`nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52810dmouse_nrf52810``           |
| Mouse             |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA20037   | :ref:`nrf52kbd_nrf52832 <nrf_desktop>`                   | ``nrf52kbd_nrf52832``                 |
| Keyboard          |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA10111   | :ref:`nrf52833dongle_nrf52833 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52833dongle_nrf52833``           |
| Dongle            |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF Desktop       | PCA10114   | :ref:`nrf52820dongle_nrf52820 <nrf_desktop>`             | ``nrf52820dongle_nrf52820``           |
| Dongle            |            |                                                          |                                       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Thingy:91         | PCA20035   | :ref:`thingy91_nrf9160 <ug_thingy91>`                    | ``thingy91_nrf9160``                  |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``thingy91_nrf9160_ns``               |
|                   |            +----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
|                   |            | :ref:`thingy91_nrf52840 <ug_thingy91>`                   | ``thingy91_nrf52840``                 |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF7002 DK        | PCA10143   | :ref:`nrf7002dk_nrf5340 <nrf7002dk_nrf5340>`             | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpunet``          |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp``          |
|                   |            |                                                          |                                       |
|                   |            |                                                          | ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``       |
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+

.. _shield_names_nrf:

Shields included in sdk-nrf
***************************

The following shields are defined in the :file:`nrf/boards/shields` folder.

+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Hardware platform                                        | PCA number | Board name                                                               | Build target                          |
+==========================================================+============+==========================================================================+=======================================+
| nRF7002 :term:`Evaluation Kit (EK)`                      | PCA63556   | :ref:`nrf7002ek <nrf70_gs_shields_evaluation_kit_nrf7002ek>`             | ``nrf7002ek``                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF7002 EK with emulated support for the nRF7001 IC      | PCA63556   | :ref:`nrf7002ek_nrf7001 <nrf70_gs_shields_evaluation_kit_nrf7002ek>`     | ``nrf7002ek_nrf7001``                 |
+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF7002 EK with emulated support for the nRF7000 IC      | PCA63556   | :ref:`nrf7002ek_nrf7000 <nrf70_gs_shields_evaluation_kit_nrf7002ek>`     | ``nrf7002ek_nrf7000``                 |
+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF7002 :term:`Expansion Board (EB)`                     | PCA63561   | :ref:`nrf7002eb <nrf70_gs_shields_expansion_boards_nrf7002eb>`           | ``nrf7002eb``                         |
+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
| nRF21540 EK                                              | PCA63550   | :ref:`nrf21540ek <ug_radio_fem_nrf21540ek>`                              | ``nrf21540ek``                        |
+----------------------------------------------------------+------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------+
