tests/tfm/tfm_regression_test/README.rst, before:

.. _tfm_regression_test:

TF-M: Regression tests
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use this test sample to run secure and non-secure Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) regression tests.

Requirements
************

This test sample requires that the device is provisioned with the PSA root-of-trust security parameters using the :ref:`provisioning image <provisioning_image>` sample.
Build and flash the provisioning image sample before using the test sample.

The tests support the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

Overview
********

Run both the secure and non-secure TF-M regression tests using the Zephyr build system.

The build system will replace the Zephyr application with the non-secure TF-M test application, while the secure tests will be included in the TF-M build itself.

The TF-M regression tests are implemented in the tf-m-tests repo: https://git.trustedfirmware.org/TF-M/tf-m-tests.git/.

Configuration
*************

Tests for both the secure and non-secure area are enabled by default, but can be controlled via the Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_REGRESSION_S` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_REGRESSION_NS` respectively.

|config|

Building and running
********************

Do not flash with ``--erase``, ``--recover``, or similar, as this will erase the PSA platform security parameters.

.. |test path| replace:: :file:`tests/tfm/tfm_regression_test/`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_test.txt

Output
======

   .. code-block:: console

      Non-Secure system starting...

      #### Execute test suites for the Secure area ####

      [...]

      Running Test Suite PS reliability tests (TFM_PS_TEST_3XXX)...
      > Executing 'TFM_PS_TEST_3001'
      Description: 'repetitive sets and gets in/from an asset'
      > Iteration 15 of 15
      TEST: TFM_PS_TEST_3001 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_PS_TEST_3002'
      Description: 'repetitive sets, gets and removes'
      > Iteration 15 of 15
      TEST: TFM_PS_TEST_3002 - PASSED!
      TESTSUITE PASSED!

      [...]

      *** Secure test suites summary ***
      Test suite 'PSA protected storage S interface tests (TFM_PS_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PS reliability tests (TFM_PS_TEST_3XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PS rollback protection tests (TFM_PS_TEST_4XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PSA internal trusted storage S interface tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'ITS reliability tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_3XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Crypto secure interface tests (TFM_CRYPTO_TEST_5XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Initial Attestation Service secure interface tests(TFM_ATTEST_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Platform Service Secure interface tests(TFM_PLATFORM_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'IPC secure interface test (TFM_IPC_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED

      *** End of Secure test suites ***

      #### Execute test suites for the Non-secure area ####

      [...]

      Running Test Suite Core non-secure positive tests (TFM_CORE_TEST_1XXX)...
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1001'
      Description: 'Test service request from NS thread mode'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1001 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1003'
      Description: 'Test the success of service init'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1003 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1007'
      Description: 'Test secure service buffer accesses'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1007 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1008'
      Description: 'Test secure service to service call'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1008 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1010'
      Description: 'Test secure service to service call with buffer handling'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1010 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1015'
      Description: 'Test service parameter sanitization'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1015 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1016'
      Description: 'Test outvec write'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1016 - PASSED!
      TESTSUITE PASSED!

      [...]

      *** Non-secure test suites summary ***
      Test suite 'PSA protected storage NS interface tests (TFM_PS_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PSA internal trusted storage NS interface tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Crypto non-secure interface test (TFM_CRYPTO_TEST_6XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Platform Service Non-Secure interface tests(TFM_PLATFORM_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Initial Attestation Service non-secure interface tests(TFM_ATTEST_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'QCBOR regression test(TFM_QCBOR_TEST_7XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'T_COSE regression test(TFM_T_COSE_TEST_8XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Core non-secure positive tests (TFM_CORE_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'IPC non-secure interface test (TFM_IPC_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED

      *** End of Non-secure test suites ***

Commit message:

doc: config_and_build: regroup and rework pages
Moved sections about CMake and Kconfig from modifying.rst
to separate pages and removed modifying.rst.
Split Building and programming into two separate sections.
Grouped guides for configuring under Configuring and building the app.
NCSDK-22324 and NCSDK-21617.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

tests/tfm/tfm_regression_test/README.rst, after:

.. _tfm_regression_test:

TF-M: Regression tests
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use this test sample to run secure and non-secure Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) regression tests.

Requirements
************

This test sample requires that the device is provisioned with the PSA root-of-trust security parameters using the :ref:`provisioning image <provisioning_image>` sample.
Build and flash the provisioning image sample before using the test sample.

The tests support the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

Overview
********

Run both the secure and non-secure TF-M regression tests using the Zephyr build system.

The build system will replace the Zephyr application with the non-secure TF-M test application, while the secure tests will be included in the TF-M build itself.

The TF-M regression tests are implemented in the tf-m-tests repo: https://git.trustedfirmware.org/TF-M/tf-m-tests.git/.

Configuration
*************

Tests for both the secure and non-secure area are enabled by default, but can be controlled via the Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_REGRESSION_S` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_REGRESSION_NS` respectively.

|config|

Building and running
********************

.. |test path| replace:: :file:`tests/tfm/tfm_regression_test/`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_test.txt

.. note::
    For programming, use the :ref:`programming command without --erase <programming_params_no_erase>`.
    Programming with ``--erase`` or ``--recover`` (or similar parameters) will erase the PSA platform security parameters.

Output
======

   .. code-block:: console

      Non-Secure system starting...

      #### Execute test suites for the Secure area ####

      [...]

      Running Test Suite PS reliability tests (TFM_PS_TEST_3XXX)...
      > Executing 'TFM_PS_TEST_3001'
      Description: 'repetitive sets and gets in/from an asset'
      > Iteration 15 of 15
      TEST: TFM_PS_TEST_3001 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_PS_TEST_3002'
      Description: 'repetitive sets, gets and removes'
      > Iteration 15 of 15
      TEST: TFM_PS_TEST_3002 - PASSED!
      TESTSUITE PASSED!

      [...]

      *** Secure test suites summary ***
      Test suite 'PSA protected storage S interface tests (TFM_PS_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PS reliability tests (TFM_PS_TEST_3XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PS rollback protection tests (TFM_PS_TEST_4XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PSA internal trusted storage S interface tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'ITS reliability tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_3XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Crypto secure interface tests (TFM_CRYPTO_TEST_5XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Initial Attestation Service secure interface tests(TFM_ATTEST_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Platform Service Secure interface tests(TFM_PLATFORM_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'IPC secure interface test (TFM_IPC_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED

      *** End of Secure test suites ***

      #### Execute test suites for the Non-secure area ####

      [...]

      Running Test Suite Core non-secure positive tests (TFM_CORE_TEST_1XXX)...
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1001'
      Description: 'Test service request from NS thread mode'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1001 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1003'
      Description: 'Test the success of service init'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1003 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1007'
      Description: 'Test secure service buffer accesses'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1007 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1008'
      Description: 'Test secure service to service call'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1008 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1010'
      Description: 'Test secure service to service call with buffer handling'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1010 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1015'
      Description: 'Test service parameter sanitization'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1015 - PASSED!
      > Executing 'TFM_CORE_TEST_1016'
      Description: 'Test outvec write'
      TEST: TFM_CORE_TEST_1016 - PASSED!
      TESTSUITE PASSED!

      [...]

      *** Non-secure test suites summary ***
      Test suite 'PSA protected storage NS interface tests (TFM_PS_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'PSA internal trusted storage NS interface tests (TFM_ITS_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Crypto non-secure interface test (TFM_CRYPTO_TEST_6XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Platform Service Non-Secure interface tests(TFM_PLATFORM_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Initial Attestation Service non-secure interface tests(TFM_ATTEST_TEST_2XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'QCBOR regression test(TFM_QCBOR_TEST_7XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'T_COSE regression test(TFM_T_COSE_TEST_8XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'Core non-secure positive tests (TFM_CORE_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED
      Test suite 'IPC non-secure interface test (TFM_IPC_TEST_1XXX)' has  PASSED

      *** End of Non-secure test suites ***
