samples/nrf5340/multiprotocol_rpmsg/README.rst, before:

.. _multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample:

nRF5340: Multiprotocol RPMsg
############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample exposes the :ref:`softdevice_controller` and the IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver support to the nRF5340 application CPU, using RPMsg transport as part of `OpenAMP`_.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The testing procedure of the sample also requires a second development kit that supports IEEE 802.15.4.

Overview
********

The sample is compatible with the HCI RPMsg driver provided by the |NCS| Bluetooth® :ref:`bt_hci_drivers` core and with the nRF 802.15.4 Serialization Host module.

See the following configuration options for more information:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_IPC`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_802154_SER_HOST`

You might need to adjust the Kconfig configuration of this sample to make it compatible with the peer application.
For example, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MAX_CONN` must be equal to the maximum number of connections supported by the peer application.

The following components in the :file:`prj.conf` file have been disabled to make this sample energy-efficient:

* Serial console
* Logger

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/nrf5340/multiprotocol_rpmsg`

You must program this sample to the nRF5340 network core.

The recommended way of building the sample is to use the multi-image feature of the build system.
In this way, the sample is built automatically as a child image when both :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_IPC` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_802154_SER_HOST` are enabled.

However, you can also build the sample as a stand-alone image.

See :ref:`configure_application` for information about how to configure the sample.

For example, you can include the Multiprotocol RPMsg sample in a multi-image build by building the :ref:`sockets-echo-server-sample` sample for the nRF5340 application core and adding the following configuration files to your build as CMake options:

* :file:`overlay-802154.conf`
* :file:`overlay-bt.conf`

See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to add these options to your build.
To see an example of this multi-image build on the command line, run the following command:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -p -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-802154.conf;overlay-bt.conf"

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
*******

The testing methods for this sample depend on how it was built and programmed to the device.
For example, if you built the sample in a multi-image build containing also the :ref:`sockets-echo-server-sample` sample, you can test it as follows:

1. Run the IEEE 802.15.4 variant of the :ref:`sockets-echo-client-sample` on a second development kit that supports IEEE 802.15.4.
#. |connect_terminal|
   As the nRF5340 DK has multiple UART instances, you must identify the correct port.
#. Observe that IPv6 packets are exchanged between the echo client and server over the IEEE 802.15.4 interface.
   You can use a smartphone to see that the nRF5340 device advertises over Bluetooth LE in parallel to the echo exchanges.

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`softdevice_controller`
* :ref:`nrf_802154_sl`
* :ref:`mpsl`

Commit message:

doc: nrf: update references to Zephyr documentation
Update some references with their new id. Note that most samples now
require the usage of the Zephyr Sphinx domain, enabled in this patch as
well.

Signed-off-by: Gerard Marull-Paretas <gerard.marull@nordicsemi.no>

samples/nrf5340/multiprotocol_rpmsg/README.rst, after:

.. _multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample:

nRF5340: Multiprotocol RPMsg
############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample exposes the :ref:`softdevice_controller` and the IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver support to the nRF5340 application CPU, using RPMsg transport as part of `OpenAMP`_.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

The testing procedure of the sample also requires a second development kit that supports IEEE 802.15.4.

Overview
********

The sample is compatible with the HCI RPMsg driver provided by the |NCS| Bluetooth® :ref:`bt_hci_drivers` core and with the nRF 802.15.4 Serialization Host module.

See the following configuration options for more information:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_IPC`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_802154_SER_HOST`

You might need to adjust the Kconfig configuration of this sample to make it compatible with the peer application.
For example, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MAX_CONN` must be equal to the maximum number of connections supported by the peer application.

The following components in the :file:`prj.conf` file have been disabled to make this sample energy-efficient:

* Serial console
* Logger

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/nrf5340/multiprotocol_rpmsg`

You must program this sample to the nRF5340 network core.

The recommended way of building the sample is to use the multi-image feature of the build system.
In this way, the sample is built automatically as a child image when both :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HCI_IPC` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_802154_SER_HOST` are enabled.

However, you can also build the sample as a stand-alone image.

See :ref:`configure_application` for information about how to configure the sample.

For example, you can include the Multiprotocol RPMsg sample in a multi-image build by building the :zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-echo-server` sample for the nRF5340 application core and adding the following configuration files to your build as CMake options:

* :file:`overlay-802154.conf`
* :file:`overlay-bt.conf`

See :ref:`cmake_options` for instructions on how to add these options to your build.
To see an example of this multi-image build on the command line, run the following command:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -p -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG="overlay-802154.conf;overlay-bt.conf"

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
*******

The testing methods for this sample depend on how it was built and programmed to the device.
For example, if you built the sample in a multi-image build containing also the :zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-echo-server` sample, you can test it as follows:

1. Run the IEEE 802.15.4 variant of the :zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-echo-client` on a second development kit that supports IEEE 802.15.4.
#. |connect_terminal|
   As the nRF5340 DK has multiple UART instances, you must identify the correct port.
#. Observe that IPv6 packets are exchanged between the echo client and server over the IEEE 802.15.4 interface.
   You can use a smartphone to see that the nRF5340 device advertises over Bluetooth LE in parallel to the echo exchanges.

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`softdevice_controller`
* :ref:`nrf_802154_sl`
* :ref:`mpsl`
