tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test/README.rst, before:

.. _tfm_psa_test:

TF-M: Platform security architecture test
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The TF-M platform security architecture test sample provides a basis for validating compliance with PSA Certified requirements using the Arm® Platform Security Architecture (PSA) test suites.

Requirements
************

The test supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

Overview
********

The PSA tests are implemented in the psa-arch-tests repo: https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-arch-tests.
Run PSA test suites tests with Zephyr and TFM.

To choose a test suite, use the ``CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_*`` Kconfig options.
Only one of these suites can be run at a time.

Configuration
*************

The following Kconfig options can be used to choose a test suite:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_CRYPTO`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_PROTECTED_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_INITIAL_ATTESTATION`

|config|

Building and running
********************

.. |test path| replace:: :file:`tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test/`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_test.txt

You can indicate the desired test suite by using a configuration flag when building (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``):

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b <build_target> nrf/tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test -- -DCONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_STORAGE=y

Note that not all test suites are valid on all boards.

Output
======

   .. code-block:: console

      *** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v2.5.0-456-g06f4da459a99  ***

      ***** PSA Architecture Test Suite - Version 1.0 *****

      Running.. Storage Suite
      ******************************************

      TEST: 401 | DESCRIPTION: UID not found check
      [Info] Executing tests from non-secure

      [Info] Executing ITS tests
      [Check 1] Call get API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 2] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 3] Call remove API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 4] Call get API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 5] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 6] Call remove API for UID 6 which is removed
      Set storage for UID 6
      [Check 7] Call get API for different UID 5
      [Check 8] Call get_info API for different UID 5
      [Check 9] Call remove API for different UID 5

      [Info] Executing PS tests
      [Check 1] Call get API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 2] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 3] Call remove API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 4] Call get API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 5] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 6] Call remove API for UID 6 which is removed
      Set storage for UID 6
      [Check 7] Call get API for different UID 5
      [Check 8] Call get_info API for different UID 5
      [Check 9] Call remove API for different UID 5

      TEST RESULT: PASSED

      ******************************************

      [...]

      TEST: 417 | DESCRIPTION: Storage assest capacity modification check
      [Info] Executing tests from non-secure

      [Info] Executing PS tests
      Test Case skipped as Optional PS APIs not are supported.

      TEST RESULT: SKIPPED (Skip Code=0x0000002B)

      ******************************************

      ************ Storage Suite Report **********
      TOTAL TESTS     : 17
      TOTAL PASSED    : 11
      TOTAL SIM ERROR : 0
      TOTAL FAILED    : 0
      TOTAL SKIPPED   : 6
      ******************************************

      Entering standby..

Commit message:

doc: tests: tfm: Document provisioning requirement
Document that provisioning is required.

Copy-modified from tfm_psa_template.

Signed-off-by: Sebastian Bøe <sebastian.boe@nordicsemi.no>

tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test/README.rst, after:

.. _tfm_psa_test:

TF-M: Platform security architecture test
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The TF-M platform security architecture test sample provides a basis for validating compliance with PSA Certified requirements using the Arm® Platform Security Architecture (PSA) test suites.

Requirements
************

When :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_ATTESTATION` is enabled, it is required that the device is provisioned with the PSA root-of-trust security parameters using the :ref:`provisioning image <provisioning_image>` sample.
To provision the device, build and flash the provisioning image sample before using the test sample.

The test supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns, nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

Overview
********

The PSA tests are implemented in the psa-arch-tests repo: https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-arch-tests.
Run PSA test suites tests with Zephyr and TFM.

To choose a test suite, use the ``CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_*`` Kconfig options.
Only one of these suites can be run at a time.

Configuration
*************

The following Kconfig options can be used to choose a test suite:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_CRYPTO`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_PROTECTED_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_STORAGE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_INITIAL_ATTESTATION`

|config|

Building and running
********************

Do not flash with ``--erase``, ``--recover``, or similar, as this will erase the PSA platform security parameters.

.. |test path| replace:: :file:`tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test/`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_test.txt

You can indicate the desired test suite by using a configuration flag when building (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns``):

.. code-block:: console

    west build -b <build_target> nrf/tests/tfm/tfm_psa_test -- -DCONFIG_TFM_PSA_TEST_STORAGE=y

Note that not all test suites are valid on all boards.

Output
======

   .. code-block:: console

      *** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v2.5.0-456-g06f4da459a99  ***

      ***** PSA Architecture Test Suite - Version 1.0 *****

      Running.. Storage Suite
      ******************************************

      TEST: 401 | DESCRIPTION: UID not found check
      [Info] Executing tests from non-secure

      [Info] Executing ITS tests
      [Check 1] Call get API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 2] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 3] Call remove API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 4] Call get API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 5] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 6] Call remove API for UID 6 which is removed
      Set storage for UID 6
      [Check 7] Call get API for different UID 5
      [Check 8] Call get_info API for different UID 5
      [Check 9] Call remove API for different UID 5

      [Info] Executing PS tests
      [Check 1] Call get API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 2] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 3] Call remove API for UID 6 which is not set
      [Check 4] Call get API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 5] Call get_info API for UID 6 which is removed
      [Check 6] Call remove API for UID 6 which is removed
      Set storage for UID 6
      [Check 7] Call get API for different UID 5
      [Check 8] Call get_info API for different UID 5
      [Check 9] Call remove API for different UID 5

      TEST RESULT: PASSED

      ******************************************

      [...]

      TEST: 417 | DESCRIPTION: Storage assest capacity modification check
      [Info] Executing tests from non-secure

      [Info] Executing PS tests
      Test Case skipped as Optional PS APIs not are supported.

      TEST RESULT: SKIPPED (Skip Code=0x0000002B)

      ******************************************

      ************ Storage Suite Report **********
      TOTAL TESTS     : 17
      TOTAL PASSED    : 11
      TOTAL SIM ERROR : 0
      TOTAL FAILED    : 0
      TOTAL SKIPPED   : 6
      ******************************************

      Entering standby..
