doc/nrf/protocols/zigbee/index.rst, before:

.. _ug_zigbee:

Zigbee
######

.. zigbee_ug_intro_start

Zigbee is a portable, low-power software networking protocol that provides connectivity over a mesh network based on the IEEE 802.15.4 radio protocol.
It also defines an application layer that provides interoperability among all Zigbee devices.

The |NCS| provides support for developing Zigbee applications based on the third-party precompiled ZBOSS stack.
This stack is included as the :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` library in nrfxlib (version |zboss_version|).
In combination with the integrated Zephyr RTOS, Zigbee in |NCS| allows for development of low-power connected solutions.

.. zigbee_ug_intro_end

See also :ref:`zigbee_samples` for the list of available Zigbee samples and :ref:`lib_zigbee` for the list of available Zigbee libraries.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   qsg
   supported_features
   architectures
   commissioning
   memory
   configuring
   configuring_libraries
   configuring_zboss_traces
   adding_clusters
   other_ecosystems
   tools

Commit message:

doc: Add release notes for 2.5
Add release notes and other changes

- [x] Add finalized highlights to the release notes
(not open for review in this PR)
- [x]  Add webinar link

Signed-off-by: Pekka Niskanen <pekka.niskanen@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/protocols/zigbee/index.rst, after:

.. _ug_zigbee:

Zigbee
######

.. zigbee_ug_intro_start

Zigbee is a portable, low-power software networking protocol that provides connectivity over a mesh network based on the IEEE 802.15.4 radio protocol.
It also defines an application layer that provides interoperability among all Zigbee devices.

The |NCS| provides support for developing Zigbee applications based on the third-party precompiled ZBOSS stack.
This stack is included as the :ref:`nrfxlib:zboss` library in nrfxlib (version |zboss_version|).
In combination with the integrated Zephyr RTOS, Zigbee in |NCS| allows for development of low-power connected solutions.

.. zigbee_ug_intro_end

.. caution::
   The Zigbee stack integrated with the |NCS| is not eligible for certification.
   It should only be used for evaluation and prototyping, and should not be used in an end product.
   A fixed, production ready version of the Zigbee stack will be part of the |NCS| 2.6.0 release.

See also :ref:`zigbee_samples` for the list of available Zigbee samples and :ref:`lib_zigbee` for the list of available Zigbee libraries.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   qsg
   supported_features
   architectures
   commissioning
   memory
   configuring
   configuring_libraries
   configuring_zboss_traces
   adding_clusters
   other_ecosystems
   tools
