doc/nrf/protocols/bt/bt_mesh/index.rst, before:

.. _ug_bt_mesh:

Bluetooth mesh
##############

The |NCS| provides support for developing applications using the Bluetooth® mesh protocol.
The support is based on Zephyr's :ref:`bluetooth_mesh` implementation.

The `Bluetooth mesh profile specification`_ is developed and published by the Bluetooth® Special Interest Group (SIG).
It allows one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many communication, using the Bluetooth LE protocol to exchange messages between the nodes on the network.
All nodes in a Bluetooth mesh network can communicate with each other, as long as there is a chain of nodes between them to relay the messages.
The messages are encrypted with two layers of 128-bit AES-CCM encryption, allowing secure communication between thousands of devices.

The end-user applications are implemented as a set of mesh models.
The Bluetooth SIG defines some generic and reusable models in the `Bluetooth mesh model specification`_, but vendors are free to define their own models.

See :ref:`samples` for the list of available Bluetooth mesh samples.

The Bluetooth mesh samples use the `nRF Mesh mobile app`_ to perform provisioning and configuration.

Read more about the Bluetooth mesh in the Bluetooth SIG's `Bluetooth mesh introduction blog`_, `Bluetooth mesh study guide`_ and `Bluetooth mesh FAQ`_.
Make also sure to check the official `Bluetooth mesh glossary`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   supported_features
   concepts
   architecture
   configuring
   model_config_app
   nlc
   fota
   node_removal
   vendor_model/index
   reserved_ids

Commit message:

doc: bluetooth: mesh: Split out mesh samples
The list of Bluetooth samples, including the Bluetooth mesh
samples, has gotten longer. Bluetooth mesh samples drown a little
and are not easily spotted.
Splitting out mesh samples onto a separate page.

Signed-off-by: Mia Koen <mia.koen@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/protocols/bt/bt_mesh/index.rst, after:

.. _ug_bt_mesh:

Bluetooth mesh
##############

The |NCS| provides support for developing applications using the Bluetooth® mesh protocol.
The support is based on Zephyr's :ref:`bluetooth_mesh` implementation.

The `Bluetooth mesh profile specification`_ is developed and published by the Bluetooth® Special Interest Group (SIG).
It allows one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many communication, using the Bluetooth LE protocol to exchange messages between the nodes on the network.
All nodes in a Bluetooth mesh network can communicate with each other, as long as there is a chain of nodes between them to relay the messages.
The messages are encrypted with two layers of 128-bit AES-CCM encryption, allowing secure communication between thousands of devices.

The end-user applications are implemented as a set of mesh models.
The Bluetooth SIG defines some generic and reusable models in the `Bluetooth mesh model specification`_, but vendors are free to define their own models.

The |NCS| provides a number of :ref:`bt_mesh_samples` that demonstrate the Bluetooth mesh features and behavior.

The Bluetooth mesh samples use the `nRF Mesh mobile app`_ to perform provisioning and configuration.

Read more about the Bluetooth mesh in the Bluetooth SIG's `Bluetooth mesh introduction blog`_, `Bluetooth mesh study guide`_ and `Bluetooth mesh FAQ`_.
Make also sure to check the official `Bluetooth mesh glossary`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   supported_features
   concepts
   architecture
   configuring
   model_config_app
   nlc
   fota
   node_removal
   vendor_model/index
   reserved_ids
