doc/nrf/config_and_build.rst, before:

.. _ug_app_dev:
.. _configuration_and_build:

Configuration and building
##########################

The |NCS| build and configuration system is based on the one from :ref:`Zephyr project <zephyr:getting_started>`, with some additions.

The figure below visualizes the tools and configuration methods in the |NCS|.
All of them have a role in the creation of an application, from configuring the libraries or applications to building them.

.. figure:: images/ncs-toolchain.svg
   :alt: nRF Connect SDK tools and configuration

   |NCS| tools and configuration methods

* CMake generates build files based on the provided :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files, which use information from Kconfig and devicetree.
  See the `CMake documentation`_.
* :ref:`Devicetree <zephyr:dt-guide>` describes the hardware.
* :ref:`zephyr:kconfig` generates definitions that configure the software.
* Ninja (comparable to Make) uses the build files to build the program, see the `Ninja documentation`_.
* The compiler (for example, `GCC compiler`_) creates the executables.

Read the guides in this section to learn how to use these tools and configuration methods in areas valid for :ref:`all supported boards <app_boards>`.
Depending on the board you are working with, check also its :ref:`hardware guide <device_guides>`, as some nRF Series families have specific exceptions and rules to be applied on top of the general configuration procedures.

Make sure to consider :ref:`app_bootloaders` and :ref:`app_dfu` already at this stage of the application development.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   config_and_build/config_and_build_system
   config_and_build/board_support
   config_and_build/pin_control
   config_and_build/use_gpio_pin_directly
   config_and_build/programming
   config_and_build/output_build_files
   config_and_build/modifying
   config_and_build/multi_image
   config_and_build/bootloaders/index
   config_and_build/dfu/index

Commit message:

doc: config_and_build: regroup pages
Created "Configuring application" section with "Configuring devicetree".
Moved devicetree related information under the devicetree section.
The landing page reuses contents of Changing hardware config section.

Created "Board support" section.
Split information on former board support page into several pages.

NCSDK-22324.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/config_and_build.rst, after:

.. _ug_app_dev:
.. _configuration_and_build:

Configuration and building
##########################

The |NCS| build and configuration system is based on the one from :ref:`Zephyr project <zephyr:getting_started>`, with some additions.

The figure below visualizes the tools and configuration methods in the |NCS|.
All of them have a role in the creation of an application, from configuring the libraries or applications to building them.

.. figure:: images/ncs-toolchain.svg
   :alt: nRF Connect SDK tools and configuration

   |NCS| tools and configuration methods

* CMake generates build files based on the provided :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files, which use information from Kconfig and devicetree.
  See the `CMake documentation`_.
* :ref:`Devicetree <zephyr:dt-guide>` describes the hardware.
* :ref:`zephyr:kconfig` generates definitions that configure the software.
* Ninja (comparable to Make) uses the build files to build the program, see the `Ninja documentation`_.
* The compiler (for example, `GCC compiler`_) creates the executables.

Read the guides in this section to learn how to use these tools and configuration methods in areas valid for :ref:`all supported boards <app_boards>`.
Depending on the board you are working with, check also its :ref:`hardware guide <device_guides>`, as some nRF Series families have specific exceptions and rules to be applied on top of the general configuration procedures.

Make sure to consider :ref:`app_bootloaders` and :ref:`app_dfu` already at this stage of the application development.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Subpages:

   config_and_build/config_and_build_system
   config_and_build/board_support/index
   config_and_build/configuring_app/hardware/index
   config_and_build/programming
   config_and_build/output_build_files
   config_and_build/modifying
   config_and_build/multi_image
   config_and_build/bootloaders/index
   config_and_build/dfu/index
