doc/nrf/getting_started.rst, before:

.. _getting_started:

Getting started
###############

To start working with the |NCS|, set up your development environment in one of the following ways:

* For automatic installation (recommended), use :ref:`nRF Connect for Desktop <gs_assistant>`
* For manual installation, refer to :ref:`gs_installing`

If you want to go through a dedicated training to familiarize yourself with the basic functionalities of the |NCS|, enroll in the `nRF Connect SDK Fundamentals course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.

For building applications, we recommend using |VSC| with the |nRFVSC|.
For more information about the extension, see the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ documentation page.

.. note::
   Some samples in the |NCS| are currently not designed to work out-of-tree. You may need to manually configure your sample to work correctly in the |nRFVSC|.

   If you are working with embedded devices, it is a good practice to first test your setup by programming an unchanged :ref:`sample<samples>` to your development kit.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Subpages:

   getting_started/recommended_versions
   getting_started/assistant
   getting_started/installing
   getting_started/programming
   getting_started/testing
   getting_started/modifying
   getting_started/updating

Commit message:

doc: gs: small spring cleanup
Edited Getting Started doc pages.
Removed duplicated info and simplified some structure.
Moved information to more relevant sections.
Added minor clarifications.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/getting_started.rst, after:

.. _getting_started:

Getting started
###############

To start working with the |NCS|, :ref:`set up your development environment automatically using nRF Connect for Desktop <gs_assistant>`.
This will install all the :ref:`requirements <gs_recommended_versions>`, including the |VSC| and the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ extension, which is recommended for building applications.

.. note::
   If you want to go through a dedicated training to familiarize yourself with the basic functionalities of the |NCS|, enroll in the `nRF Connect SDK Fundamentals course`_ in the `Nordic Developer Academy`_.

If you have any issues when installing the |NCS| automatically, :ref:`install the nRF Connect SDK toolchain manually <gs_installing>`.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Subpages:

   getting_started/recommended_versions
   getting_started/assistant
   getting_started/installing
   getting_started/programming
   getting_started/testing
   getting_started/modifying
   getting_started/updating
