doc/nrf/index.rst, before:

.. _index:

Welcome to the |NCS|!
#####################

The |NCS| is where you begin building low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor nRF52, nRF53, nRF70, and nRF91 Series devices.

The SDK contains optimized cellular IoT (LTE-M and NB-IoT), Bluetooth® Low Energy, Thread, Zigbee, Wi-Fi®, and Bluetooth mesh stacks, a range of applications, samples, and reference implementations, as well as a full suite of drivers for Nordic Semiconductor's devices.
The |NCS| includes the Zephyr™ real-time operating system (RTOS), which is built for connected low power products.

To access different versions of the |NCS| documentation, use the version drop-down in the top right corner.
A "99" at the end of the version number of this documentation indicates continuous updates on the main branch since the previous major.minor release.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents
   :hidden:

   introduction
   installation
   config_and_build
   test_and_optimize
   device_guides
   security
   protocols
   applications
   samples
   drivers
   libraries/index
   scripts
   integrations
   releases_and_maturity
   documentation

..   templates/cheat_sheet

Commit message:

doc: Doc updates for 2.4.99-dev1
Doc updates for 2.4.99-dev1 release

Signed-off-by: Uma Praseeda <uma.praseeda@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/index.rst, after:

.. _index:

Welcome to the |NCS|!
#####################

.. important::

   |NCS| v2.4.99-dev1 is a development tag and will be replaced by v2.5.0 in the future.

   The development tag contains the following major updates:

   * New :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library for nRF Cloud service's CoAP API, enabling low power devices to gain savings from short sleep times and efficient communication.
   * Added CoAP support to :ref:`nrf_cloud_multi_service` (called previously Cellular: nRF Cloud MQTT multi-service).


The |NCS| is where you begin building low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor nRF52, nRF53, nRF70, and nRF91 Series devices.

The SDK contains optimized cellular IoT (LTE-M and NB-IoT), Bluetooth® Low Energy, Thread, Zigbee, Wi-Fi®, and Bluetooth mesh stacks, a range of applications, samples, and reference implementations, as well as a full suite of drivers for Nordic Semiconductor's devices.
The |NCS| includes the Zephyr™ real-time operating system (RTOS), which is built for connected low power products.

To access different versions of the |NCS| documentation, use the version drop-down in the top right corner.
A "99" at the end of the version number of this documentation indicates continuous updates on the main branch since the previous major.minor release.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents
   :hidden:

   introduction
   installation
   config_and_build
   test_and_optimize
   device_guides
   security
   protocols
   applications
   samples
   drivers
   libraries/index
   scripts
   integrations
   releases_and_maturity
   documentation

..   templates/cheat_sheet
