applications/nrf_desktop/doc/ble_conn_params.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_ble_conn_params:

Bluetooth LE connection parameters module
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use the |ble_conn_params| to:

* Update the connection parameters after the peripheral discovery.
* React on connection parameter update requests from the connected peripherals.
* Increase Bluetooth connection interval for peripherals while USB is suspended to reduce power consumption.

Module Events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_ble_conn_params_start
    :end-before: table_ble_conn_params_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The module requires the basic Bluetooth configuration, as described in :ref:`nrf_desktop_bluetooth_guide`.
The module is automatically enabled for every nRF Desktop central device (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT_CENTRAL <config_desktop_app_options>`).

Enable :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI <config_desktop_app_options>` to manage Bluetooth connections' parameters reacting on the USB state change.
The connection intervals for all of the Bluetooth connected peripherals are set to :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI_VALUE <config_desktop_app_options>` (100 ms by default) while USB is suspended.
The connections' peripheral latencies are set to 0.
The connection parameter change is reverted when USB is active.
The :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI <config_desktop_app_options>` is enabled by default.

Implementation details
**********************

The |ble_conn_params| receives the peripheral's connection parameters update request as :c:struct:`ble_peer_conn_params_event`.
The module updates only the connection latency.
The connection interval and supervision timeout are not changed according to the peripheral's request.

.. note::
   On the peripheral side, the Bluetooth connection latency is controlled by :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_latency`.

LLPM connections
================

The Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) connection parameters are not supported by the standard Bluetooth.

The LLPM connection parameters update requires using vendor-specific HCI commands.
Moreover, the peripheral cannot request the LLPM connection parameters using Zephyr Bluetooth® API.

Connection interval update
==========================

After the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_discovery` completes the peripheral discovery, the |ble_conn_params| updates the connection parameters in the following manner:

* If the central and the connected peripheral both support the Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM), the connection interval is set to **1 ms**.
* If neither the central nor the connected peripheral support LLPM, or if only one of them supports it, the interval is set to the following values:

  * **7.5 ms** if LLPM is not supported by the central or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MAX_CONN` is set to value of 1.
    This is the shortest interval allowed by the standard Bluetooth.
  * **10 ms** otherwise.
    This is required to avoid Bluetooth Link Layer scheduling conflicts that could lead to HID report rate drop.

.. |ble_conn_params| replace:: Bluetooth® LE connection parameters module

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Remove modules/Kconfig.ble file
Change removes the modules/Kconfig.ble file and creates separate
Kconfig files for application modules. Change also introduces Kconfig
options that are used to control enabling other Bluetooth modules and
HW ID utility. This is done to improve the configuration consistency.

Jira: NCSDK-17327

Signed-off-by: Marek Pieta <Marek.Pieta@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Anna Wojdylo <anna.wojdylo@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/ble_conn_params.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_ble_conn_params:

Bluetooth LE connection parameters module
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Use the |ble_conn_params| to:

* Update the connection parameters after the peripheral discovery.
* React on connection parameter update requests from the connected peripherals.
* Increase Bluetooth connection interval for peripherals while USB is suspended to reduce power consumption.

Module Events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_ble_conn_params_start
    :end-before: table_ble_conn_params_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The module requires the basic Bluetooth configuration, as described in :ref:`nrf_desktop_bluetooth_guide`.
Make sure that both :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_ROLE_HID_DONGLE <config_desktop_app_options>` and :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT_CENTRAL <config_desktop_app_options>` options are enabled.
The |ble_conn_params| is enabled by the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_CONN_PARAMS_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option.
The option is implied by :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT_CENTRAL <config_desktop_app_options>` together with other features used by an HID dongle that forwards the HID reports received over Bluetooth LE.

Enable :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI <config_desktop_app_options>` to manage Bluetooth connections' parameters reacting on the USB state change.
The connection intervals for all of the Bluetooth connected peripherals are set to :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI_VALUE <config_desktop_app_options>` (100 ms by default) while USB is suspended.
The connections' peripheral latencies are set to 0.
The connection parameter change is reverted when USB is active.
The :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_USB_MANAGED_CI <config_desktop_app_options>` is enabled by default.

Implementation details
**********************

The |ble_conn_params| receives the peripheral's connection parameters update request as :c:struct:`ble_peer_conn_params_event`.
The module updates only the connection latency.
The connection interval and supervision timeout are not changed according to the peripheral's request.

.. note::
   On the peripheral side, the Bluetooth connection latency is controlled by :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_latency`.

LLPM connections
================

The Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM) connection parameters are not supported by the standard Bluetooth.

The LLPM connection parameters update requires using vendor-specific HCI commands.
Moreover, the peripheral cannot request the LLPM connection parameters using Zephyr Bluetooth® API.

Connection interval update
==========================

After the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_discovery` completes the peripheral discovery, the |ble_conn_params| updates the connection parameters in the following manner:

* If the central and the connected peripheral both support the Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM), the connection interval is set to **1 ms**.
* If neither the central nor the connected peripheral support LLPM, or if only one of them supports it, the interval is set to the following values:

  * **7.5 ms** if LLPM is not supported by the central or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MAX_CONN` is set to value of 1.
    This is the shortest interval allowed by the standard Bluetooth.
  * **10 ms** otherwise.
    This is required to avoid Bluetooth Link Layer scheduling conflicts that could lead to HID report rate drop.

.. |ble_conn_params| replace:: Bluetooth® LE connection parameters module
