applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dev_descr.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_dev_descr:

Device description module
#########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The device description module defines custom GATT Service, which contains:

* Information about whether the peripheral supports the Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM)
* Hardware ID (HW ID) of the peripheral

To support the LLPM, the peripheral must use the SoftDevice Link Layer.
This means that you must enable both the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM` Kconfig options.

The Service is mandatory for all nRF Desktop peripherals that connect to the nRF Desktop centrals.

Module events
*************

The ``dev_descr`` module does not submit any event nor subscribe for any event.

Configuration
*************

The module uses Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:hwinfo_api` to obtain the hardware ID.
Enable the required driver using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO`.

The module is enabled by default for all nRF Desktop peripheral devices.

The :file:`dev_descr.h` file contains the UUIDs used by the custom GATT Service.
The file is located in the :file:`configuration/common` directory.
The UUIDs must be the same for all devices to ensure that the central is able to read the provided information.

Implementation details
**********************

The module uses :c:macro:`BT_GATT_SERVICE_DEFINE` to define the custom GATT Service.
More detailed information regarding GATT is available in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:bt_gatt` documentation.

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Remove modules/Kconfig.ble file
Change removes the modules/Kconfig.ble file and creates separate
Kconfig files for application modules. Change also introduces Kconfig
options that are used to control enabling other Bluetooth modules and
HW ID utility. This is done to improve the configuration consistency.

Jira: NCSDK-17327

Signed-off-by: Marek Pieta <Marek.Pieta@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Anna Wojdylo <anna.wojdylo@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dev_descr.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_dev_descr:

Device description module
#########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The device description module defines custom GATT Service, which contains:

* Information about whether the peripheral supports the Low Latency Packet Mode (LLPM)
* Hardware ID (HW ID) of the peripheral

To support the LLPM, the peripheral must use the SoftDevice Link Layer.
This means that you must enable both the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_LL_SOFTDEVICE` and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_USE_LLPM` Kconfig options.

The Service is mandatory for all nRF Desktop peripherals that connect to the nRF Desktop centrals.

Module events
*************

The ``dev_descr`` module does not submit any event nor subscribe for any event.

Configuration
*************

The module requires the basic Bluetooth configuration, as described in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_bluetooth_guide` documentation.
Make sure that both :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_ROLE_HID_PERIPHERAL <config_desktop_app_options>` and :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT_PERIPHERAL <config_desktop_app_options>` options are enabled.
The device description application module is enabled by the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DEV_DESCR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option, which is implied by :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BT_PERIPHERAL <config_desktop_app_options>` together with other features used by a Bluetooth LE HID peripheral device.

The module selects the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HWID <config_desktop_app_options>` option to make sure that the nRF Desktop Hardware ID utility is enabled.
The utility uses Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:hwinfo_api` to obtain the hardware ID and selects the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO` Kconfig option to automatically enable the required driver.

The :file:`dev_descr.h` file contains the UUIDs used by the custom GATT Service.
The file is located in the :file:`configuration/common` directory.
The UUIDs must be the same for all devices to ensure that the central is able to read the provided information.

Implementation details
**********************

The module uses :c:macro:`BT_GATT_SERVICE_DEFINE` to define the custom GATT Service.
More detailed information regarding GATT is available in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:bt_gatt` documentation.
