applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dfu_mcumgr.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr:

Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module is responsible for performing a Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) over Simple Management Protocol (SMP).

If you enable the Bluetooth LE as transport, you can perform the DFU using, for example, the `nRF Connect for Mobile`_ application.
The :guilabel:`DFU` button appears in the tab with the connected Bluetooth® devices.
After pressing the button, you can select the :file:`*.bin` file used for the firmware update.

.. note::
    The Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module implementation is currently marked as experimental because it uses internal MCUmgr API.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_dfu_mcumgr_start
    :end-before: table_dfu_mcumgr_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

To enable the module, set the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.

The module selects the following configurations:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR` - This option enables the MCUmgr support, which is required for the DFU process.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr` in the Zephyr documentation.
* MCUmgr groups:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables the MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_MGMT_NOTIFICATION_HOOKS` - This option enables the MCUmgr notification hook support, which allows the module to listen for an MCUmgr event.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcumgr_callbacks` in the Zephyr documentation.

  MCUmgr notifications hooks:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_UPLOAD_CHECK_HOOK` - This option enables the MCUmgr upload check hook, which sends image upload requests to the registered callbacks.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_STATUS_HOOKS` - This option enables the MCUmgr image status hooks, which report the DFU status to the registered callbacks.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS_RESET_HOOK` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS reset hook, which sends reset requests to the registered callbacks.

* MCUmgr dependencies:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_BUF`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZCBOR`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRC`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_STREAM_FLASH`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH_MAP`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH`

To use the module, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.
The DFU over Simple Management Protocol in Zephyr is supported only with the MCUboot bootloader.

By default, the MCUmgr DFU module confirms the image using the :c:func:`boot_write_img_confirmed` function during the system boot.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` option is enabled, the MCUmgr DFU module assumes that the bootloader simply boots the image with a higher version and does not confirm the newly updated image after a successful boot.
Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode.
The option is enabled by default if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_BUILD_DIRECT_XIP_VARIANT` is enabled.

You must also enable the preferred transport for the MCUmgr's SMP protocol (for example, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` Kconfig option).
With the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` Kconfig option enabled, the module enables the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP_TRANSFER_EVENTS` event.
The event can be used to lower Bluetooth connection latency during the DFU process.

The DFU module leverages the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` to synchronize flash access with other DFU methods (for example, the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu`).
Set the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option to enable this feature.
Make sure that the DFU lock utility is enabled if your nRF Desktop application configuration uses multiple DFU transports.

You cannot use this module with the :ref:`caf_ble_smp`.
In other words, you cannot simultaneously enable the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` Kconfig option.

Implementation details
**********************

The module uses MCUmgr's image notification callbacks for the following purposes:

* To periodically submit an :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` while image upload over Bluetooth LE is in progress.
  The module registers itself as the final subscriber of the event to track the number of submitted events.
  If a :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` was already submitted, but was not yet processed, the module desists from submitting subsequent events.
* To reject image upload or system reboot request if :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` is already taken by another DFU transport.

The DFU MCUmgr implementation uses the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock`.
On each DFU attempt, the module attempts to claim ownership over the DFU flash using the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` API.
It holds the DFU owner status until the DFU process is completed or timed out.
The module assumes that DFU is timed out if the registered MCUmgr notification hooks are not called for 5 seconds.
If the module is not the current DFU owner, it rejects the DFU commands that either write to the DFU flash or reboot the device.
The module also resets the MCUmgr DFU progress once the lock is claimed by a different owner.

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Improve DFU over SMP documentation
Change updates documentation to inform about both modules used for the
DFU over SMP. Change also contains other small improvements related to
the SMP DFU documentation.

Jira: NCSDK-21667

Signed-off-by: Marek Pieta <Marek.Pieta@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Anna Wojdylo <anna.wojdylo@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dfu_mcumgr.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr:

Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module is responsible for performing a Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) over Simple Management Protocol (SMP).

If you enable the Bluetooth LE as transport, you can perform the DFU using, for example, the `nRF Connect for Mobile`_ application.
The :guilabel:`DFU` button appears in the tab of the connected Bluetooth device that supports the image transfer over the Simple Management Protocol (SMP).
After pressing the button, you can select the :file:`*.bin` file used for the firmware update.
See the :ref:`nrf_desktop_image_transfer_over_smp` section for information about which binary file should be used for the DFU image transfer.

.. note::
    The Device Firmware Upgrade MCUmgr module implementation is currently marked as experimental because it uses internal MCUmgr API.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_dfu_mcumgr_start
    :end-before: table_dfu_mcumgr_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

To enable the module, set the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.

The module selects the following configurations:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR` - This option enables the MCUmgr support, which is required for the DFU process.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcu_mgr` in the Zephyr documentation.
* MCUmgr groups:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables the MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
    For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_MGMT_NOTIFICATION_HOOKS` - This option enables the MCUmgr notification hook support, which allows the module to listen for an MCUmgr event.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcumgr_callbacks` in the Zephyr documentation.

  MCUmgr notifications hooks:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_UPLOAD_CHECK_HOOK` - This option enables the MCUmgr upload check hook, which sends image upload requests to the registered callbacks.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_STATUS_HOOKS` - This option enables the MCUmgr image status hooks, which report the DFU status to the registered callbacks.
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS_RESET_HOOK` - This option enables the MCUmgr OS reset hook, which sends reset requests to the registered callbacks.

* MCUmgr dependencies:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_BUF`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZCBOR`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRC`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_IMG_MANAGER`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_STREAM_FLASH`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH_MAP`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH`

To use the module, you must also enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option.
The DFU over Simple Management Protocol in Zephyr is supported only with the MCUboot bootloader.

By default, the MCUmgr DFU module confirms the image using the :c:func:`boot_write_img_confirmed` function during the system boot.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` option is enabled, the MCUmgr DFU module assumes that the bootloader simply boots the image with a higher version and does not confirm the newly updated image after a successful boot.
Make sure that :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_MCUBOOT_DIRECT_XIP` Kconfig option is enabled if devices use the MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode.
The option is enabled by default if :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_BUILD_DIRECT_XIP_VARIANT` is enabled.

You must also enable the preferred transport for the MCUmgr's SMP protocol (for example, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` Kconfig option).
With the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` Kconfig option enabled, the module enables the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP_TRANSFER_EVENTS` event.
The event can be used to lower Bluetooth connection latency during the DFU process.

The DFU module leverages the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` to synchronize flash access with other DFU methods (for example, the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu`).
Set the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option to enable this feature.
Make sure that the DFU lock utility is enabled if your nRF Desktop application configuration uses multiple DFU transports.

You cannot use this module with the :ref:`caf_ble_smp`.
In other words, you cannot simultaneously enable the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` option and the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` Kconfig option.

Implementation details
**********************

The module uses MCUmgr's image notification callbacks for the following purposes:

* To periodically submit an :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` while image upload over Bluetooth LE is in progress.
  The module registers itself as the final subscriber of the event to track the number of submitted events.
  If a :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` was already submitted, but was not yet processed, the module desists from submitting subsequent events.
* To reject image upload or system reboot request if :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` is already taken by another DFU transport.

The DFU MCUmgr implementation uses the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock`.
On each DFU attempt, the module attempts to claim ownership over the DFU flash using the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_lock` API.
It holds the DFU owner status until the DFU process is completed or timed out.
The module assumes that DFU is timed out if the registered MCUmgr notification hooks are not called for 5 seconds.
If the module is not the current DFU owner, it rejects the DFU commands that either write to the DFU flash or reboot the device.
The module also resets the MCUmgr DFU progress once the lock is claimed by a different owner.
