applications/nrf_desktop/doc/info.rst, before:

.. _nrf_desktop_info:

Info module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Info module provides the following device information through the configuration channel:

* Highest ID of configuration channel listener
* Board name
* Hardware ID (HW ID)

The data provided by Info module is required by :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` to identify, discover, and configure the device.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_info_start
    :end-before: table_info_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The module uses Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:hwinfo_api` to obtain the hardware ID.
Enable the required driver using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO`.

The module is enabled with the same Kconfig option as the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel`: :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`.

Implementation details
**********************

Providing the highest ID of the configuration channel listener is based on the number of elements in the ``config_channel_modules`` section.
:c:macro:`GEN_CONFIG_EVENT_HANDLERS` adds an element to the section for every registered configuration channel listener.

The board name provided by the module through the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` is a part of the Zephyr board name (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD`), ending with the predefined character (:c:macro:`BOARD_NAME_SEPARATOR`).

Commit message:

applications: nrf_desktop: Remove modules/Kconfig.ble file
Change removes the modules/Kconfig.ble file and creates separate
Kconfig files for application modules. Change also introduces Kconfig
options that are used to control enabling other Bluetooth modules and
HW ID utility. This is done to improve the configuration consistency.

Jira: NCSDK-17327

Signed-off-by: Marek Pieta <Marek.Pieta@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Anna Wojdylo <anna.wojdylo@nordicsemi.no>

applications/nrf_desktop/doc/info.rst, after:

.. _nrf_desktop_info:

Info module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Info module provides the following device information through the configuration channel:

* Highest ID of configuration channel listener
* Board name
* Hardware ID (HW ID)

The data provided by Info module is required by :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel_script` to identify, discover, and configure the device.

Module events
*************

.. include:: event_propagation.rst
    :start-after: table_info_start
    :end-before: table_info_end

.. note::
    |nrf_desktop_module_event_note|

Configuration
*************

The module selects the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_HWID <config_desktop_app_options>` option to make sure that nRF Desktop Hardware ID utility is enabled.
The utility uses Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:hwinfo_api` to obtain the hardware ID and selects the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_HWINFO` Kconfig option to automatically enable the required driver.

The module is enabled with the same Kconfig option as the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel`: :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`.

Implementation details
**********************

Providing the highest ID of the configuration channel listener is based on the number of elements in the ``config_channel_modules`` section.
:c:macro:`GEN_CONFIG_EVENT_HANDLERS` adds an element to the section for every registered configuration channel listener.

The board name provided by the module through the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` is a part of the Zephyr board name (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOARD`), ending with the predefined character (:c:macro:`BOARD_NAME_SEPARATOR`).
