applications/asset_tracker_v2/doc/data_module.rst, before:

.. _asset_tracker_v2_data_module:

Data module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The data module gathers data that has been sampled by other modules in the system and stores it into ring buffers.
It keeps track of data requested by the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module` and decides when data is sent to the cloud.

Features
********

This section documents the features implemented by the module.

Requested data types
====================

The data module maintains a list of requested data types that is updated every time a sample request of type :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` is sent from the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module`.
When all the data types present in the list is received by the module, the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is sent out.
This event signifies that all data has been gathered for a sample request.
The available data can now be encoded and sent to the cloud.
The :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` event also carries a sample timeout.
This timeout is used by the data module to trigger a :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` event, even if not all types in the requested list have been received.
This acts as a fail-safe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.
For example, it is not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.

.. note::
   The module can decide not to send data after a sample request.
   If this happens, data is persisted in the ring buffers and sent to the cloud in batch messages after the next sample request, in case the application is connected to the cloud.
   The ring buffers in the module are implemented so that the oldest entry is always overwritten in case the buffer is filled.

Device configuration
====================

When the application boots, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.
These value are persisted in flash between reboots using the :ref:`settings_api` and updated each time the application receives a new configuration update.
If a new configuration update is received from the cloud, the data module distributes the new configuration values using the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_READY` event.
You can alter the default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` compile time using the options listed in the :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Connection evaluation
=====================

This is an :ref:`experimental <software_maturity>` feature.
The module can decide to hold off encoding and sending of sampled data based on evaluation of the LTE connection and estimated energy consumed to send the data.
This feature is enabled by setting the :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY <CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY>` Kconfig option.
The module can deny the sending of data a number of times before it is sent regardless.
This limit is configurable and set by the :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX <CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX>` Kconfig option.
This feature is supported for regular updates that include neighbor cell measurements, generic (GNSS, sensor data, and so on), and historical batched data, which are scheduled based on the application's :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>`.

To adjust the minimum allowed energy threshold for a specific type, set the following Kconfig options:

* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`

The energy levels map directly to the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` structure :c:struct:`lte_lc_energy_estimate` and the current energy level that is evaluated before sending of data is retrieved with the :c:func:`lte_lc_conn_eval_params_get` function call.

.. _default_config_values:

Configuration options
*********************

Options that alter the default values of the application's real-time configurations:

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_ACTIVE:

CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_ACTIVE
   This configuration sets the device in active mode.
   Default mode for nRF91 Series devices.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_PASSIVE:

CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_PASSIVE
   This configuration sets the device in passive mode.
   Default mode for the Thingy:91.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the active mode timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the movement resolution timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the movement timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_ACT_THRESHOLD:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_ACT_THRESHOLD
   This configuration sets the upper accelerometer threshold value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_THRESHOLD:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_THRESHOLD
   This configuration sets the lower accelerometer threshold value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets a timeout in seconds after which the accelerometer reports inactivity.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_LOCATION_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_LOCATION_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the location timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_GNSS_DEFAULT:

CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_GNSS_DEFAULT
   This configuration includes GNSS during sampling.
   Enabled by default.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_DEFAULT:

CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_DEFAULT
   This configuration includes neighbor cell measurements during sampling.
   Enabled by default.

Other options:

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY:

CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY
   Grants or denies encoding and sending of data based on LTE connection quality.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX:

CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX
   Maximum number of times sending can be denied due to connection quality before the data is sent regardless.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for generic updates.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for neighbor cell updates.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for batch updates.

Module states
*************

The data module has an internal state machine with the following states:

* ``STATE_CLOUD_DISCONNECTED`` - Cloud is disconnected. Data transmission is not attempted.
* ``STATE_CLOUD_CONNECTED`` - Cloud is connected. Data transmission is attempted.
* ``STATE_SHUTDOWN`` - The module has been shut down after receiving a request from the utility module.

Module events
*************

The :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h` header file contains a list of events sent by the module.

Dependencies
************

This module uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* :ref:`app_event_manager`
* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agnss`
* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps`
* :ref:`settings_api`

API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h`
| Source files: :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.c`, :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/modules/data_module.c`

.. doxygengroup:: data_module_event
   :project: nrf
   :members:

Commit message:

applications: asset_tracker_v2: Fix requested data in sample request
Removed location from sample request when the Location module is
disabled. Earlier also location was requested and because of this the
sending of data was delayed until sampling timed out.

Removed battery and environmental data sampling when Sensor module
is disabled.

Improved handling of case where all configured location methods
are disabled using the run-time configuration.

Added missing Kconfig option for Wi-Fi sampling default value.

Signed-off-by: Tommi Kangas <tommi.kangas@nordicsemi.no>

applications/asset_tracker_v2/doc/data_module.rst, after:

.. _asset_tracker_v2_data_module:

Data module
###########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The data module gathers data that has been sampled by other modules in the system and stores it into ring buffers.
It keeps track of data requested by the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module` and decides when data is sent to the cloud.

Features
********

This section documents the features implemented by the module.

Requested data types
====================

The data module maintains a list of requested data types that is updated every time a sample request of type :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` is sent from the :ref:`asset_tracker_v2_app_module`.
When all the data types present in the list is received by the module, the event :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` is sent out.
This event signifies that all data has been gathered for a sample request.
The available data can now be encoded and sent to the cloud.
The :c:enum:`APP_EVT_DATA_GET` event also carries a sample timeout.
This timeout is used by the data module to trigger a :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_DATA_READY` event, even if not all types in the requested list have been received.
This acts as a fail-safe in case some modules do not manage to sample the requested data in time.
For example, it is not always possible to acquire a GNSS fix.

.. note::
   The module can decide not to send data after a sample request.
   If this happens, data is persisted in the ring buffers and sent to the cloud in batch messages after the next sample request, in case the application is connected to the cloud.
   The ring buffers in the module are implemented so that the oldest entry is always overwritten in case the buffer is filled.

Device configuration
====================

When the application boots, the data module distributes the current values of the applications :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` to the rest of the application with the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_INIT` event.
These value are persisted in flash between reboots using the :ref:`settings_api` and updated each time the application receives a new configuration update.
If a new configuration update is received from the cloud, the data module distributes the new configuration values using the :c:enum:`DATA_EVT_CONFIG_READY` event.
You can alter the default values of the :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>` compile time using the options listed in the :ref:`Default device configuration options <default_config_values>`.

Connection evaluation
=====================

This is an :ref:`experimental <software_maturity>` feature.
The module can decide to hold off encoding and sending of sampled data based on evaluation of the LTE connection and estimated energy consumed to send the data.
This feature is enabled by setting the :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY <CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY>` Kconfig option.
The module can deny the sending of data a number of times before it is sent regardless.
This limit is configurable and set by the :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX <CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX>` Kconfig option.
This feature is supported for regular updates that include neighbor cell measurements, generic (GNSS, sensor data, and so on), and historical batched data, which are scheduled based on the application's :ref:`Real-time configurations <real_time_configs>`.

To adjust the minimum allowed energy threshold for a specific type, set the following Kconfig options:

* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN <CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN>`

The energy levels map directly to the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` structure :c:struct:`lte_lc_energy_estimate` and the current energy level that is evaluated before sending of data is retrieved with the :c:func:`lte_lc_conn_eval_params_get` function call.

.. _default_config_values:

Configuration options
*********************

Options that alter the default values of the application's real-time configurations:

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_ACTIVE:

CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_ACTIVE
   This configuration sets the device in active mode.
   Default mode for nRF91 Series devices.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_PASSIVE:

CONFIG_DATA_DEVICE_MODE_PASSIVE
   This configuration sets the device in passive mode.
   Default mode for the Thingy:91.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_ACTIVE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the active mode timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_RESOLUTION_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the movement resolution timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_MOVEMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the movement timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_ACT_THRESHOLD:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_ACT_THRESHOLD
   This configuration sets the upper accelerometer threshold value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_THRESHOLD:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_THRESHOLD
   This configuration sets the lower accelerometer threshold value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_ACCELEROMETER_INACT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets a timeout in seconds after which the accelerometer reports inactivity.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_LOCATION_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATA_LOCATION_TIMEOUT_SECONDS
   This configuration sets the location timeout value.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_GNSS_DEFAULT:

CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_GNSS_DEFAULT
   This configuration includes GNSS during sampling.
   Enabled by default.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_DEFAULT:

CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_DEFAULT
   This configuration includes neighbor cell measurements during sampling.
   Enabled by default.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_WIFI_DEFAULT:

CONFIG_DATA_SAMPLE_WIFI_DEFAULT
   This configuration includes Wi-Fi APs during sampling.
   Enabled by default.

Other options:

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY:

CONFIG_DATA_GRANT_SEND_ON_CONNECTION_QUALITY
   Grants or denies encoding and sending of data based on LTE connection quality.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX:

CONFIG_DATA_SEND_ATTEMPTS_COUNT_MAX
   Maximum number of times sending can be denied due to connection quality before the data is sent regardless.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_GENERIC_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for generic updates.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_NEIGHBOR_CELL_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for neighbor cell updates.

.. _CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN:

CONFIG_DATA_BATCH_UPDATES_ENERGY_THRESHOLD_MIN
   Minimum energy threshold for batch updates.

Module states
*************

The data module has an internal state machine with the following states:

* ``STATE_CLOUD_DISCONNECTED`` - Cloud is disconnected. Data transmission is not attempted.
* ``STATE_CLOUD_CONNECTED`` - Cloud is connected. Data transmission is attempted.
* ``STATE_SHUTDOWN`` - The module has been shut down after receiving a request from the utility module.

Module events
*************

The :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h` header file contains a list of events sent by the module.

Dependencies
************

This module uses the following |NCS| libraries and drivers:

* :ref:`app_event_manager`
* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agnss`
* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps`
* :ref:`settings_api`

API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.h`
| Source files: :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/events/data_module_event.c`, :file:`asset_tracker_v2/src/modules/data_module.c`

.. doxygengroup:: data_module_event
   :project: nrf
   :members:
