samples/wifi/scan/README.rst, before:

.. _wifi_scan_sample:

Wi-Fi: Scan
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Scan sample demonstrates how to use the Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi® chipset to scan for the access points without using the wpa_supplicant.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample can perform Wi-Fi scan operations in the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands.

Using this sample, the development kit can scan for available access points in :abbr:`STA (Station)` mode.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/scan`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

To build for the nRF7002 DK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target.
The following are examples of the CLI commands:

* Build to fetch only Device scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

* Build to fetch only Raw scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS=y -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS_ONLY=y

* Build to fetch both Raw and Device scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS=y

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|

   The sample shows the following output:

* Device scan only results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Security | BSSID
      1    | abcdef                           6     | 1    | -37  | WPA/WPA2 | aa:aa:aa:aa:aa:aa
      2    | pqrst                            5     | 1    | -65  | WPA/WPA2 | xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
      3    | AZBYCXD                          7     | 1    | -41  | WPA/WPA2 | yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy
      Scan request done

* Raw scan only results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | len   | Frequency | RSSI | RAW_DATA(32 bytes)
      1    | 299   | 2412 | -44  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 A0 7F 0B 05 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      2    | 430   | 2412 | -37  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 90 11 69 36 EC 8A 02 00 00 00
      3    | 284   | 2412 | -45  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 20 CF 7B 20 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      4    | 299   | 2412 | -43  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 B0 7F EC 2B 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      5    | 409   | 2412 | -38  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE A0 36 BC 56 41 E0 A0 36 BC 56 41 E0 60 E2 C7 A5 0F 90 0D 00 00 00
      Scan request done

* Raw scan and Device scan results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | len   | Frequency | RSSI | RAW_DATA(32 bytes)
      1    | 299   | 2412 | -44  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 A0 7F 0B 05 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      2    | 430   | 2412 | -37  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 90 11 69 36 EC 8A 02 00 00 00
      3    | 284   | 2412 | -45  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 20 CF 7B 20 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      4    | abcdef                           6     | 1    | -37  | WPA/WPA2 | aa:aa:aa:aa:aa:aa
      5    | pqrst                            5     | 1    | -65  | WPA/WPA2 | xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
      6    | AZBYCXD                          7     | 1    | -41  | WPA/WPA2 | yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy
      Scan request done

Commit message:

wifi: scan: Take user setting for scan type
Take the user input for scan type selection.

Signed-off-by: Ajay Parida <ajay.parida@nordicsemi.no>

samples/wifi/scan/README.rst, after:

.. _wifi_scan_sample:

Wi-Fi: Scan
############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Scan sample demonstrates how to use the Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi® chipset to scan for the access points without using the wpa_supplicant.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

Overview
********

This sample can perform Wi-Fi scan operations in the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands.
The default scan type is active scan.
However, you can configure the scan type to be either active or passive.

Using this sample, the development kit can scan for available access points in :abbr:`STA (Station)` mode.

Configuration
*************

|config|

Select the scan type to be used by the sample.

.. note::
        You can also use ``menuconfig`` to enable the ``Scan type`` option.

See :ref:`zephyr:menuconfig` in the Zephyr documentation for instructions on how to run ``menuconfig``.

The following application-specific Kconfig option is used in this sample (located in :file:`samples/wifi/scan/Kconfig`):

* Use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_WIFI_SCAN_TYPE_SELECT` Kconfig option to set the scan type to be used by the sample.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/wifi/scan`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

To build for the nRF7002 DK, use the ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target.
The following are examples of the CLI commands:

* Build to fetch only Device scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp

* Build to fetch only Raw scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS=y -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS_ONLY=y

* Build to fetch both Raw and Device scan results

  .. code-block:: console

   west build -b nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_WIFI_MGMT_RAW_SCAN_RESULTS=y

Testing
=======

|test_sample|

#. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|

   The sample shows the following output:

* Device scan only results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | SSID                             (len) | Chan | RSSI | Security | BSSID
      1    | abcdef                           6     | 1    | -37  | WPA/WPA2 | aa:aa:aa:aa:aa:aa
      2    | pqrst                            5     | 1    | -65  | WPA/WPA2 | xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
      3    | AZBYCXD                          7     | 1    | -41  | WPA/WPA2 | yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy
      Scan request done

* Raw scan only results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | len   | Frequency | RSSI | RAW_DATA(32 bytes)
      1    | 299   | 2412 | -44  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 A0 7F 0B 05 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      2    | 430   | 2412 | -37  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 90 11 69 36 EC 8A 02 00 00 00
      3    | 284   | 2412 | -45  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 20 CF 7B 20 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      4    | 299   | 2412 | -43  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 B0 7F EC 2B 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      5    | 409   | 2412 | -38  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE A0 36 BC 56 41 E0 A0 36 BC 56 41 E0 60 E2 C7 A5 0F 90 0D 00 00 00
      Scan request done

* Raw scan and Device scan results:

  .. code-block:: console

      Scan requested
      Num  | len   | Frequency | RSSI | RAW_DATA(32 bytes)
      1    | 299   | 2412 | -44  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 D4 BD 4F E1 F5 33 A0 7F 0B 05 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      2    | 430   | 2412 | -37  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 3C 7C 3F DA DF 38 90 11 69 36 EC 8A 02 00 00 00
      3    | 284   | 2412 | -45  | 50 00 3A 01 F4 CE 36 00 10 CE D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 D4 BD 4F 21 F5 38 20 CF 7B 20 75 7F D8 00 00 00
      4    | abcdef                           6     | 1    | -37  | WPA/WPA2 | aa:aa:aa:aa:aa:aa
      5    | pqrst                            5     | 1    | -65  | WPA/WPA2 | xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
      6    | AZBYCXD                          7     | 1    | -41  | WPA/WPA2 | yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy
      Scan request done
