doc/nrf/libraries/caf/ble_smp.rst, before:

.. _caf_ble_smp:

CAF: Simple Management Protocol module
######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |smp| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) allows to perform the device firmware upgrade (DFU) over Bluetooth® LE.

Configuration
*************

To use the module, you must enable the following Kconfig options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_STATE` - This module enables :ref:`caf_ble_state`.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` - This option enables |smp| over Bluetooth LE.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_MGMT_NOTIFICATION_HOOKS` - This option enables MCUmgr notification hook support, which allows this module to listen for a MCUmgr event.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcumgr_callbacks` in the Zephyr documentation.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_UPLOAD_CHECK_HOOK` - This option enables MCUmgr upload check hook, which sends image upload requests to the registered callbacks.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` - This option enables support for the SMP commands over Bluetooth.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` - This option enables the MCUboot bootloader.
  The DFU over Simple Management Protocol in Zephyr is supported only with the MCUboot bootloader.

Enabling remote OS management
=============================

The |smp| supports registering OS management handlers automatically, which you can enable using the following Kconfig option:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables MCUmgr OS management handlers.
  Use these handlers to remotely trigger the device reboot after the image transfer is completed.
  After the reboot, the device starts using the new firmware.
  One of the applications that support the remote reboot functionality is `nRF Connect for Mobile`_.

Implementation details
**********************

The module registers the :c:func:`upload_confirm_cb` callback that is used to submit ``ble_smp_transfer_event``.
The module registers itself as the final subscriber of the event to track the number of submitted events.
If a ``ble_smp_transfer_event`` was already submitted, but was not yet processed, the module desists from submitting subsequent event.
After the previously submitted event is processed, the module submits a subsequent event when :c:func:`upload_confirm_cb` callback is called.

The application user must not perform more than one firmware upgrade at a time.
The modification of the data by multiple application modules can result in a broken image that is going to be rejected by the bootloader.

The module periodically submits ``ble_smp_transfer_event`` while the image is being uploaded.

You can perform the DFU using for example the `nRF Connect for Mobile`_ application.
The :guilabel:`DFU` button appears in the tab with the connected Bluetooth devices.
After pressing the button, you can select the :file:`*.bin` file that is to be used for the firmware update.

.. note::
  The SMP firmware update file is generated as :file:`zephyr/app_update.bin` in the build directory when building your application for configuration with the |smp| enabled.

Commit message:

caf: ble_smp: Update binary file name in documentation
Change updates information about the binary file that should be used
for the DFU procedure. This is needed to align documentation with
use case where MCUboot bootloader in direct-xip mode is used.

Change also updates references to ble_smp_transfer_event.

Jira: NCSDK-21651

Signed-off-by: Marek Pieta <Marek.Pieta@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Anna Wojdylo <anna.wojdylo@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/libraries/caf/ble_smp.rst, after:

.. _caf_ble_smp:

CAF: Simple Management Protocol module
######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The |smp| of the :ref:`lib_caf` (CAF) allows to perform the device firmware upgrade (DFU) over Bluetooth® LE.

Configuration
*************

To use the module, you must enable the following Kconfig options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_STATE` - This module enables :ref:`caf_ble_state`.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_SMP` - This option enables |smp| over Bluetooth LE.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG` - This option enables MCUmgr image management handlers, which are required for the DFU process.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:device_mgmt` in the Zephyr documentation.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_MGMT_NOTIFICATION_HOOKS` - This option enables MCUmgr notification hook support, which allows this module to listen for a MCUmgr event.
  For details, see :ref:`zephyr:mcumgr_callbacks` in the Zephyr documentation.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_UPLOAD_CHECK_HOOK` - This option enables MCUmgr upload check hook, which sends image upload requests to the registered callbacks.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_TRANSPORT_BT` - This option enables support for the SMP commands over Bluetooth.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` - This option enables the MCUboot bootloader.
  The DFU over Simple Management Protocol in Zephyr is supported only with the MCUboot bootloader.

Enabling remote OS management
=============================

The |smp| supports registering OS management handlers automatically, which you can enable using the following Kconfig option:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_OS` - This option enables MCUmgr OS management handlers.
  Use these handlers to remotely trigger the device reboot after the image transfer is completed.
  After the reboot, the device starts using the new firmware.
  One of the applications that support the remote reboot functionality is `nRF Connect for Mobile`_.

Implementation details
**********************

The module periodically submits :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` during the image upload.
The module registers the :c:func:`upload_confirm_cb` callback that is used to submit :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event`.
The module registers itself as the final subscriber of the event to track the number of submitted events.
If a :c:struct:`ble_smp_transfer_event` was already submitted but not processed, the module desists from submitting a subsequent event.
After the previously submitted event is processed, the module submits a subsequent event when the :c:func:`upload_confirm_cb` callback is called.

The application user must not perform more than one firmware upgrade at a time.
The modification of the data by multiple application modules can result in a broken image that is going to be rejected by the bootloader.

You can perform the DFU using, for example, the `nRF Connect for Mobile`_ application.
The :guilabel:`DFU` button appears in the tab of the connected Bluetooth device that supports the image transfer over the Simple Management Protocol (SMP).
After pressing the button, you can select the :file:`*.bin` file used for the firmware update.

After building your application for configuration with the |smp| enabled, the following firmware update files are generated in the build directory:

 * :file:`zephyr/app_update.bin` - The application image that is bootable from the primary slot.
 * :file:`zephyr/mcuboot_secondary_app_update.bin` - The application image that is bootable from the secondary slot.
   The file is generated only if the MCUboot bootloader is built in the direct-xip mode.

If the MCUboot bootloader is built in the direct-xip mode, you must upload the image to the slot that is currently unused.
If the MCUboot bootloader is built in the swap mode instead, you must use the :file:`zephyr/app_update.bin` file.
In the swap mode, the MCUboot bootloader always moves the new application image to the primary slot before booting it.
For more information about the MCUboot configuration, see the :ref:`MCUboot <mcuboot:mcuboot_wrapper>` documentation.

.. note::
  If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_REJECT_DIRECT_XIP_MISMATCHED_SLOT` Kconfig option is enabled in the application configuration, the device rejects an update image upload for the invalid slot.
  It is recommended to enable the option if the application uses MCUboot in the direct-xip mode.
  The upload rejection can be used as a simple mechanism of verifying which image update should be used.
