doc/nrf/getting_started/modifying.rst, before:

.. _gs_modifying:

Modifying an application
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|application_sample_definition|

After programming and testing an application, you probably want to make some modifications to the application, for example, add your own files with additional functionality, change compilation options, or update the default configuration.

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_.
For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.

Role of CMakeLists.txt
======================

In the |NCS|, the application is a CMake project.
As such, the application controls the configuration and build process of itself, Zephyr, and sourced libraries.
The application's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is the main CMake project file and the source of the build process configuration.

Zephyr provides a CMake package that must be loaded by the application into its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.
When loaded, the application can reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.

Loading Zephyr's `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_ package creates the ``app`` CMake target.
You can add application source files to this target from the application :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.

Updating CMakeLists.txt
=======================

The recommended method to update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is to use the |nRFVSC| to maintain it.
You can also edit the file directly.

Editing CMakeLists.txt
======================

You can add source files to the ``app`` CMake target with the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you can split it into subdirectories.
  These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
* The build system searches for header files in include directories.
  Add additional include directories for your application with the :c:func:`target_include_directories` function provided by CMake.
  For example, if you want to include an :file:`inc` directory, the code would look like the following:

  .. code-block:: c

     target_include_directories(app PRIVATE inc)

See the `CMake documentation`_ and :ref:`zephyr:cmake-details` in the Zephyr documentation for more information about how to edit :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig **Build and Link Features** > **Compiler Options**.
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

.. _configuration_system_overview:

Configuration system overview
=============================

Zephyr and the |NCS| use several configuration systems, each system with a specialized syntax and purpose.

The following tables summarizes information about the configuration sources in the |NCS|.

.. list-table:: Configuration source overview
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Source
     - File types
     - Usage
     - Available editing tools
     - Additional information
   * - :ref:`Devicetree <zephyr:dt-guide>`
     - :file:`.dts`, :file:`.dtsi`, :file:`.overlay`
     - Hardware-related options
     - `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
     - Devicetree Visual Editor is part of the |nRFVSC|. You still need to be familiar with the devicetree language to use it.
   * - :ref:`Kconfig <zephyr:application-kconfig>`
     - :file:`Kconfig`, :file:`prj.conf`, :file:`.config`
     - Software-related options
     - `Kconfig GUI <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_, :ref:`menuconfig and guiconfig <zephyr:menuconfig>`
     - Kconfig GUI is part of the |nRFVSC|.
   * - :ref:`partition_manager`
     - :file:`pm.yml`
     - Memory layout configuration
     - :ref:`partition_manager` script
     - Partition Manager is an |NCS| configuration system that is not available in Zephyr.

See the following sections for more information.
To read more about Zephyr's configuration system, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. _configure_application_hw:

Hardware-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: build/cmake/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Devicetree
   :end-before: The preprocessed devicetree sources

The preprocessed devicetree sources are parsed by the :file:`zephyr/scripts/dts/gen_defines.py` script to generate a :file:`devicetree_unfixed.h` header file with preprocessor macros.

The :file:`zephyr.dts` file contains the entire hardware-related configuration of the system in the devicetree format.
The header file contains the same kind of information, but with defines usable by source code.

For more information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide`.

.. _configure_application_sw:

Software-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: build/cmake/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Kconfig
   :end-before: Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig,

Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig, through the functions defined in :file:`zephyr/scripts/kconfig/kconfigfunctions.py`.

The single :file:`.config` file in the :file:`<build_dir>/zephyr/` directory describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.

For more information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application-kconfig`.

Memory layout configuration
---------------------------

The Partition Manager is specific to the |NCS|.
If enabled, it provides the memory layout configuration.
The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.

If enabled, the memory layout can be controlled in the following ways:

* Dynamically (default) - In this scenario, the layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
  Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.
* Statically - In this scenario, you need to provide the static configuration.
  See :ref:`ug_pm_static` for information about how to do this.

After CMake has run, a single :file:`partitions.yml` file with the complete memory layout will have been created in the :file:`build` directory.
This process also creates a set of header files that provides defines, which can be used to refer to memory layout elements.

For more information, see :ref:`partition_manager`.

Child images
------------

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for the sub-applications known in the |NCS| as child images.
Examples of child images are bootloader images, network core images, or security-related images.
Each child image is a separate application.

For more information, see :ref:`ug_multi_image`.

Changing the hardware configuration
===================================

To correctly edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files for your project, you need to be familiar with the :ref:`Devicetree language and syntax <zephyr:dt-guide>`.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      The |nRFVSC| offers several layers of `Devicetree integration <Devicetree support overview_>`_, ranging from summarizing devicetree settings in a menu and providing devicetree language support in the editor, to the Devicetree Visual Editor, a GUI tool for editing devicetree files.
      Follow the steps in `How to create devicetree files`_ and use one of the following options to edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files:

      * `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
      * `Devicetree language support`_


Changing the software configuration
===================================

You can change the software-related configuration temporarily or permanently.
The temporary build files are deleted when you clean the build directory with the ``pristine`` target (see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information).

.. _configuration_temporary_change:

Temporary changes
-----------------

When building your application, the different :file:`.config`, :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.
The resulting configuration is written to the :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.
This means that this file is available when building the application until you clean the build directory pristinely.

The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` lists the menu path where the option can be found.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      Use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| to select the desired options.
      The GUI organizes the Kconfig options in a hierarchical list and lets you view and manage your selection.

      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Search modules** field.
      Read the `Configuring with nRF Kconfig`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation for more information.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application in the |nRFVSC| using menuconfig.
      Open the **More actions..** menu next to `Kconfig action in the Actions View`_ to start menuconfig in the extension.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      To quickly test different configuration options, or to build your application in different variants, you can update the :file:`.config` file in the build directory.
      Changes are picked up immediately.

      .. note::
         While it is possible to edit the :file:`.config` file directly, you should use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| or a tool like menuconfig or guiconfig to update it.
         These tools present all available options and allow you to select the ones that you need.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application using menuconfig.
      For this purpose, run the following command when :ref:`gs_programming_cmd`.

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`zephyr:menuconfig` in the Zephyr documentation for instructions on how to run menuconfig or guiconfig.
      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Jump to** field.

.. _configuration_permanent_change:

Permanent changes
-----------------

To configure your application and maintain the configuration after you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
This will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and the invisible options that are calculated from it.
   It does not adjust visible symbols that have already defaulted to a value even if this default calculation is supposed to be dependent on the changed setting.
   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with |nRFVSC|, you can use one of the following options:

      * Select an extra Kconfig fragment file when you `build an application <How to build an application_>`_.
      * Edit the Kconfig options using the nRF Kconfig GUI and save changes permanently to an existing or new :file:`prj.conf` file.

      See the `extension's documentation about Kconfig <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_ for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      |west_build_option|

The :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.
The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs.
This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt.

.. _cmake_options:

Providing CMake options
***********************

You can provide additional options for building your application to the CMake process, which can be useful, for example, to switch between different build scenarios.
These options are specified when CMake is run, thus not during the actual build, but when configuring the build.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with the |nRFVSC|, you can specify project-specific CMake options when you add the build configuration for a new |NCS| project.
      See `How to build an application`_ in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      |west_build_option|

.. _gs_modifying_build_types:

Configuring build types
***********************

.. build_types_overview_start

When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

The Partition Manager's :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` can also be made dependent on the build type.
When the build type has been inferred, the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.

The child image Kconfig configuration can also be made dependent on the build type.
The child image Kconfig overlay file is named :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>.conf` instead of :file:`prj.conf`, but otherwise follows the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.

Alternatively, the child image Kconfig configuration file can be introduced as :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>/prj.conf` and follow the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.
For example, :file:`child_image/mcuboot/prj_release.conf` can be used to define ``release`` build type for ``mcuboot`` child image.

.. build_types_overview_end

The Devicetree configuration is not affected by the build type.

.. note::
    For an example of an application that is using build types, see the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application (:ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`) or the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application (:ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`).

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_start

      To select the build type in the |nRFVSC|:

      1. When `building an application <How to build an application_>`_ as described in the |nRFVSC| documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.
      #. In the **Add Build Configuration** screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.
      #. Fill in other configuration options, if applicable, and click :guilabel:`Build Configuration`.

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_end

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_start

      To select the build type when building the application from command line, specify the build type by adding the following parameter to the ``west build`` command:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

      For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` by running the following command in the project directory:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -d build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf

      The ``build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` parameter specifies the output directory for the build files.

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_end

.. |west_build_option| replace:: If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
   The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
   See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-args` for more information.

Commit message:

doc: modifying: add link to Build Sys Variables
Made the link to Zephyr's Build System Variables more prominent.
Changed links to CMake instructions.
NCSDK-21600.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/getting_started/modifying.rst, after:

.. _gs_modifying:

Modifying an application
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|application_sample_definition|

After programming and testing an application, you probably want to make some modifications to the application, for example, add your own files with additional functionality, change compilation options, or update the default configuration.

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_.
For more information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.

Role of CMakeLists.txt
======================

In the |NCS|, the application is a CMake project.
As such, the application controls the configuration and build process of itself, Zephyr, and sourced libraries.
The application's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is the main CMake project file and the source of the build process configuration.

Zephyr provides a CMake package that must be loaded by the application into its :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.
When loaded, the application can reference items provided by both Zephyr and the |NCS|.

Loading Zephyr's `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_ package creates the ``app`` CMake target.
You can add application source files to this target from the application :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file.

Updating CMakeLists.txt
=======================

The recommended method to update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is to use the |nRFVSC| to maintain it.
You can also edit the file directly.

Editing CMakeLists.txt
======================

You can add source files to the ``app`` CMake target with the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you can split it into subdirectories.
  These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
* The build system searches for header files in include directories.
  Add additional include directories for your application with the :c:func:`target_include_directories` function provided by CMake.
  For example, if you want to include an :file:`inc` directory, the code would look like the following:

  .. code-block:: c

     target_include_directories(app PRIVATE inc)

See the `CMake documentation`_ and :ref:`zephyr:cmake-details` in the Zephyr documentation for more information about how to edit :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig **Build and Link Features** > **Compiler Options**.
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

.. _configuration_system_overview:

Configuration system overview
=============================

Zephyr and the |NCS| use several configuration systems, each system with a specialized syntax and purpose.

The following tables summarizes information about the configuration sources in the |NCS|.

.. list-table:: Configuration source overview
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Source
     - File types
     - Usage
     - Available editing tools
     - Additional information
   * - :ref:`Devicetree <zephyr:dt-guide>`
     - :file:`.dts`, :file:`.dtsi`, :file:`.overlay`
     - Hardware-related options
     - `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
     - Devicetree Visual Editor is part of the |nRFVSC|. You still need to be familiar with the devicetree language to use it.
   * - :ref:`Kconfig <zephyr:application-kconfig>`
     - :file:`Kconfig`, :file:`prj.conf`, :file:`.config`
     - Software-related options
     - `Kconfig GUI <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_, :ref:`menuconfig and guiconfig <zephyr:menuconfig>`
     - Kconfig GUI is part of the |nRFVSC|.
   * - :ref:`partition_manager`
     - :file:`pm.yml`
     - Memory layout configuration
     - :ref:`partition_manager` script
     - Partition Manager is an |NCS| configuration system that is not available in Zephyr.

See the following sections for more information.
To read more about Zephyr's configuration system, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. _configure_application_hw:

Hardware-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: build/cmake/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Devicetree
   :end-before: The preprocessed devicetree sources

The preprocessed devicetree sources are parsed by the :file:`zephyr/scripts/dts/gen_defines.py` script to generate a :file:`devicetree_unfixed.h` header file with preprocessor macros.

The :file:`zephyr.dts` file contains the entire hardware-related configuration of the system in the devicetree format.
The header file contains the same kind of information, but with defines usable by source code.

For more information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide`.

.. _configure_application_sw:

Software-related configuration
------------------------------

.. ncs-include:: build/cmake/index.rst
   :docset: zephyr
   :dedent: 3
   :start-after: Kconfig
   :end-before: Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig,

Information from devicetree is available to Kconfig, through the functions defined in :file:`zephyr/scripts/kconfig/kconfigfunctions.py`.

The single :file:`.config` file in the :file:`<build_dir>/zephyr/` directory describes the entire software configuration of the constructed binary.

For more information, see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application-kconfig`.

Memory layout configuration
---------------------------

The Partition Manager is specific to the |NCS|.
If enabled, it provides the memory layout configuration.
The layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.

If enabled, the memory layout can be controlled in the following ways:

* Dynamically (default) - In this scenario, the layout is impacted by various elements, such as Kconfig configuration options or the presence of child images.
  Partition Manager ensures that all required partitions are in the correct place and have the correct size.
* Statically - In this scenario, you need to provide the static configuration.
  See :ref:`ug_pm_static` for information about how to do this.

After CMake has run, a single :file:`partitions.yml` file with the complete memory layout will have been created in the :file:`build` directory.
This process also creates a set of header files that provides defines, which can be used to refer to memory layout elements.

For more information, see :ref:`partition_manager`.

Child images
------------

The |NCS| build system allows the application project to become a root for the sub-applications known in the |NCS| as child images.
Examples of child images are bootloader images, network core images, or security-related images.
Each child image is a separate application.

For more information, see :ref:`ug_multi_image`.

Changing the hardware configuration
===================================

To correctly edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files for your project, you need to be familiar with the :ref:`Devicetree language and syntax <zephyr:dt-guide>`.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      The |nRFVSC| offers several layers of `Devicetree integration <Devicetree support overview_>`_, ranging from summarizing devicetree settings in a menu and providing devicetree language support in the editor, to the Devicetree Visual Editor, a GUI tool for editing devicetree files.
      Follow the steps in `How to create devicetree files`_ and use one of the following options to edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files:

      * `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
      * `Devicetree language support`_


Changing the software configuration
===================================

You can change the software-related configuration temporarily or permanently.
The temporary build files are deleted when you clean the build directory with the ``pristine`` target (see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information).

.. _configuration_temporary_change:

Temporary changes
-----------------

When building your application, the different :file:`.config`, :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.
The resulting configuration is written to the :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.
This means that this file is available when building the application until you clean the build directory pristinely.

The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` lists the menu path where the option can be found.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      Use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| to select the desired options.
      The GUI organizes the Kconfig options in a hierarchical list and lets you view and manage your selection.

      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Search modules** field.
      Read the `Configuring with nRF Kconfig`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation for more information.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application in the |nRFVSC| using menuconfig.
      Open the **More actions..** menu next to `Kconfig action in the Actions View`_ to start menuconfig in the extension.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      To quickly test different configuration options, or to build your application in different variants, you can update the :file:`.config` file in the build directory.
      Changes are picked up immediately.

      .. note::
         While it is possible to edit the :file:`.config` file directly, you should use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| or a tool like menuconfig or guiconfig to update it.
         These tools present all available options and allow you to select the ones that you need.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application using menuconfig.
      For this purpose, run the following command when :ref:`gs_programming_cmd`.

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`zephyr:menuconfig` in the Zephyr documentation for instructions on how to run menuconfig or guiconfig.
      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Jump to** field.

.. _configuration_permanent_change:

Permanent changes
-----------------

To configure your application and maintain the configuration after you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
This will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and the invisible options that are calculated from it.
   It does not adjust visible symbols that have already defaulted to a value even if this default calculation is supposed to be dependent on the changed setting.
   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with |nRFVSC|, you can use one of the following options:

      * Select an extra Kconfig fragment file when you `build an application <How to build an application_>`_.
      * Edit the Kconfig options using the nRF Kconfig GUI and save changes permanently to an existing or new :file:`prj.conf` file.

      See the `extension's documentation about Kconfig <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_ for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-config` for more information.

The :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.
The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs.
This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt.

.. _cmake_options:

Providing CMake options
***********************

You can provide additional options for building your application to the CMake process, which can be useful, for example, to switch between different build scenarios.
These options are specified when CMake is run, thus not during the actual build, but when configuring the build.

For information about what variables can be set and how to add these variables in your project, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with the |nRFVSC|, you can specify project-specific CMake options when you add the build configuration for a new |NCS| project.
      See `How to build an application`_ in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-args` for more information.

.. _gs_modifying_build_types:

Configuring build types
***********************

.. build_types_overview_start

When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

The Partition Manager's :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` can also be made dependent on the build type.
When the build type has been inferred, the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.

The child image Kconfig configuration can also be made dependent on the build type.
The child image Kconfig overlay file is named :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>.conf` instead of :file:`prj.conf`, but otherwise follows the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.

Alternatively, the child image Kconfig configuration file can be introduced as :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>/prj.conf` and follow the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.
For example, :file:`child_image/mcuboot/prj_release.conf` can be used to define ``release`` build type for ``mcuboot`` child image.

.. build_types_overview_end

The Devicetree configuration is not affected by the build type.

.. note::
    For an example of an application that is using build types, see the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application (:ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`) or the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application (:ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`).

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_start

      To select the build type in the |nRFVSC|:

      1. When `building an application <How to build an application_>`_ as described in the |nRFVSC| documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.
      #. In the **Add Build Configuration** screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.
      #. Fill in other configuration options, if applicable, and click :guilabel:`Build Configuration`.

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_end

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_start

      To select the build type when building the application from command line, specify the build type by adding the following parameter to the ``west build`` command:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

      For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` by running the following command in the project directory:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -d build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf

      The ``build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` parameter specifies the output directory for the build files.

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_end
