samples/cellular/pdn/README.rst, before:

.. _pdn_sample:

Cellular: PDN
#############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The PDN sample demonstrates how to create and configure a Packet Data Protocol (PDP) context, activate a Packet Data Network connection, and receive events on its state and connectivity using the :ref:`pdn_readme` library.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

Overview
********

The sample first initializes the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`.
Next, the sample initializes the :ref:`pdn_readme` library and registers a callback for events pertaining to the default PDP context.
This is done before changing the function mode to 1 (``AT+CFUN=1``) to receive the activation event for the default PDP context.
The sample then creates a new PDP context and configures it to use the default APN, registers a callback for its events and activates the PDN connection.
Finally, the sample prints the PDP context IDs and PDN IDs of both the default PDP context and the new PDP context that it has created.

.. note::
   The sample uses the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library to change the modem's functional mode.
   Hence, the :ref:`pdn_readme` library can automatically register to the necessary packet domain events notifications using the `AT+CGEREP=1 <AT+CGEREP set command_>`_ AT command, and notifications for unsolicited reporting of error codes sent by the network using the `AT+CNEC=16 <AT+CNEC set command_>`_ AT command.
   If your application does not use the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library to change the modem's functional mode, you have to subscribe to these notifications manually before the functional mode is changed.

.. include:: /libraries/modem/nrf_modem_lib/nrf_modem_lib_trace.rst
   :start-after: modem_lib_sending_traces_UART_start
   :end-before: modem_lib_sending_traces_UART_end

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/cellular/pdn`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt


Testing
=======

|test_sample|

1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Power on or reset your nRF91 Series DK.
#. Observe that the sample starts, creates and configures a PDP context, and then activates a PDN connection.

Sample output
=============

The sample shows the following output, which may vary based on the network provider:

.. code-block:: console

   PDN sample started
   Event: PDP context 0 activated
   Default APN is telenor.iot
   Created new PDP context 1
   PDP contEvent: PDP context 0 IPv6 up
   ext 1 configured: APN telenor.iot, Family IPV4V6
   Event: PDP context 1 activated
   Event: PDP context 1 IPv6 up
   PDP Context 0, PDN ID 0
   PDP Context 1, PDN ID 0

   Interface addresses:
   l0: (AF_INET) 10.243.140.208
   l0: (AF_INET6) fe80::63:b639:ab01
   l0: (AF_INET6) 2a02:2121:20d:175d:0:63:b639:ab01

   Event: PDP context 0 deactivated
   Event: PDP context 1 deactivated
   Event: PDP context 0 network detach
   Event: PDP context 1 network detach
   Bye

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`at_monitor_readme`
* :ref:`lte_lc_readme`
* :ref:`pdn_readme`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`

In addition, it uses the following secure firmware component:

* :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>`

Commit message:

doc: Rename nRF91 AT Commands Reference Guide
* Rename "nRF91 AT Commands Reference Guide" to "nRF9160 AT Commands".
* Add AT Commands Reference Guide for the nRF9161 DK.

Signed-off-by: divya pillai <divya.pillai@nordicsemi.no>

samples/cellular/pdn/README.rst, after:

.. _pdn_sample:

Cellular: PDN
#############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The PDN sample demonstrates how to create and configure a Packet Data Protocol (PDP) context, activate a Packet Data Network connection, and receive events on its state and connectivity using the :ref:`pdn_readme` library.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

Overview
********

The sample first initializes the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`.
Next, the sample initializes the :ref:`pdn_readme` library and registers a callback for events pertaining to the default PDP context.
This is done before changing the function mode to 1 (``AT+CFUN=1``) to receive the activation event for the default PDP context.
The sample then creates a new PDP context and configures it to use the default APN, registers a callback for its events and activates the PDN connection.
Finally, the sample prints the PDP context IDs and PDN IDs of both the default PDP context and the new PDP context that it has created.

.. note::
   The sample uses the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library to change the modem's functional mode.
   Hence, the :ref:`pdn_readme` library can automatically register to the necessary packet domain events notifications using the ``AT+CGEREP=1`` AT command, and notifications for unsolicited reporting of error codes sent by the network using the ``AT+CNEC=16`` AT command.
   See the `AT+CGEREP set command`_  and the `AT+CNEC set command` sections, respectively, in the nRF9160 AT Commands Reference Guide or the same sections in the `nRF91x1 AT Commands Reference Guide`_ depending on the SiP you are using.
   If your application does not use the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library to change the modem's functional mode, you have to subscribe to these notifications manually before the functional mode is changed.

.. include:: /libraries/modem/nrf_modem_lib/nrf_modem_lib_trace.rst
   :start-after: modem_lib_sending_traces_UART_start
   :end-before: modem_lib_sending_traces_UART_end

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/cellular/pdn`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt


Testing
=======

|test_sample|

1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
#. Power on or reset your nRF91 Series DK.
#. Observe that the sample starts, creates and configures a PDP context, and then activates a PDN connection.

Sample output
=============

The sample shows the following output, which may vary based on the network provider:

.. code-block:: console

   PDN sample started
   Event: PDP context 0 activated
   Default APN is telenor.iot
   Created new PDP context 1
   PDP contEvent: PDP context 0 IPv6 up
   ext 1 configured: APN telenor.iot, Family IPV4V6
   Event: PDP context 1 activated
   Event: PDP context 1 IPv6 up
   PDP Context 0, PDN ID 0
   PDP Context 1, PDN ID 0

   Interface addresses:
   l0: (AF_INET) 10.243.140.208
   l0: (AF_INET6) fe80::63:b639:ab01
   l0: (AF_INET6) 2a02:2121:20d:175d:0:63:b639:ab01

   Event: PDP context 0 deactivated
   Event: PDP context 1 deactivated
   Event: PDP context 0 network detach
   Event: PDP context 1 network detach
   Bye

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`at_monitor_readme`
* :ref:`lte_lc_readme`
* :ref:`pdn_readme`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`

In addition, it uses the following secure firmware component:

* :ref:`Trusted Firmware-M <ug_tfm>`
