doc/nrf/protocols/bt_mesh/nlc.rst, before:

.. _ug_bt_mesh_nlc:

Networked Lighting Control profiles
###################################

Bluetooth® Networked Lighting Control (NLC) profiles are a set of device profiles built on top of the Bluetooth mesh protocol, specified by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) in the `Bluetooth NLC profile specifications`_.
The NLC profiles can be used to implement interoperable network controlled lighting setups, including sensors, light fixtures, energy monitoring, scene selectors and dimmer controls.
Each of the profiles specifies a set of models and a set of performance parameters.

The |NCS| provides a demonstration of how to implement each of these profiles as part of the Bluetooth samples.
An overview of the NLC profiles and the samples supporting them is provided in a table below.

.. table::
   :align: center

   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | NLC profile                             | Sample                               |
   +=========================================+======================================+
   | Ambient Light Sensor NLC Profile        | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server`  |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Basic Lightness Controller NLC Profile  | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc`       |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Basic Scene Selector NLC Profile        | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_dim`      |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Dimming Control NLC Profile             | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_dim`      |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Energy Monitor NLC Profile              | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc`       |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Occupancy Sensor NLC Profile            | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server`  |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Bluetooth: mesh: add Kconfigs for NLC profiles
* Added Kconfig options for NLC profiles for redefining default values
and/or ranges for corresponding mesh Kconfig options. The specified
values are required performance parameters as defined in the spec.
for the NLC profiles.

* Updated the NLC profiles documentation page.

Signed-off-by: Stine Åkredalen <stine.akredalen@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/protocols/bt_mesh/nlc.rst, after:

.. _ug_bt_mesh_nlc:

Networked Lighting Control profiles
###################################

Bluetooth® Networked Lighting Control (NLC) profiles are a set of device profiles built on top of the Bluetooth mesh protocol, specified by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) in the `Bluetooth NLC profile specifications`_.
The NLC profiles can be used to implement interoperable network controlled lighting setups, including sensors, light fixtures, energy monitoring, scene selectors and dimmer controls.
Each of the profiles specifies a set of models and a set of performance parameters.

Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_NLC_PERF_CONF` Kconfig option to set the required performance configurations for the NLC profiles.
When implementing the NLC Basic Lightness Controller profile individually or in conjunction with other NLC profiles, also enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_NLC_PERF_LIGHTNESS_CTRL` Kconfig option.

The |NCS| provides a demonstration of how to implement each of these profiles as part of the Bluetooth samples.
An overview of the NLC profiles and the samples supporting them is provided in a table below.

.. table::
   :align: center

   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | NLC profile                             | Sample                               |
   +=========================================+======================================+
   | Ambient Light Sensor NLC Profile        | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server`  |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Basic Lightness Controller NLC Profile  | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc`       |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Basic Scene Selector NLC Profile        | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_dim`      |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Dimming Control NLC Profile             | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_dim`      |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Energy Monitor NLC Profile              | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc`       |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
   | Occupancy Sensor NLC Profile            | :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_sensor_server`  |
   +-----------------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
