doc/nrf/config_and_build/modifying.rst, before:

.. _gs_modifying:
.. _modifying:

Modifying an application
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|application_sample_definition|

After programming and testing an application, you probably want to make some modifications to the application, for example, add your own files with additional functionality, change compilation options, or update the default configuration.

.. _modifying_files_compiler:

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_.
For an overview of the build system in the |NCS|, see :ref:`app_build_system`.
For information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.

Updating CMakeLists.txt
=======================

The recommended method to update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is to use the |nRFVSC| to maintain it.
You can also edit the file directly.

Editing CMakeLists.txt
======================

You can add source files to the ``app`` CMake target with the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you can split it into subdirectories.
  These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
* The build system searches for header files in include directories.
  Add additional include directories for your application with the :c:func:`target_include_directories` function provided by CMake.
  For example, if you want to include an :file:`inc` directory, the code would look like the following:

  .. code-block:: c

     target_include_directories(app PRIVATE inc)

See the `CMake documentation`_ and :ref:`zephyr:cmake-details` in the Zephyr documentation for more information about how to edit :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig **Build and Link Features** > **Compiler Options**.
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application for each of its :ref:`configuration systems <configuration_system_overview>`.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

Changing the hardware configuration
===================================

To correctly edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files for your project, you need to be familiar with the :ref:`Devicetree language and syntax <zephyr:dt-guide>`.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      The |nRFVSC| offers several layers of `Devicetree integration <Devicetree support overview_>`_, ranging from summarizing devicetree settings in a menu and providing devicetree language support in the editor, to the Devicetree Visual Editor, a GUI tool for editing devicetree files.
      Follow the steps in `How to create devicetree files`_ and use one of the following options to edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files:

      * `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
      * `Devicetree language support`_


Changing the software configuration
===================================

You can change the software-related configuration temporarily or permanently.
The temporary build files are deleted when you clean the build directory with the ``pristine`` target (see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information).

.. _configuration_temporary_change:

Temporary changes
-----------------

When building your application, the different :file:`.config`, :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.
The resulting configuration is written to the :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.
This means that this file is available when building the application until you clean the build directory pristinely.

The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` lists the menu path where the option can be found.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      Use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| to select the desired options.
      The GUI organizes the Kconfig options in a hierarchical list and lets you view and manage your selection.

      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Search modules** field.
      Read the `Configuring with nRF Kconfig`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation for more information.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application in the |nRFVSC| using menuconfig.
      Open the **More actions..** menu next to `Kconfig action in the Actions View`_ to start menuconfig in the extension.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      To quickly test different configuration options, or to build your application in different variants, you can update the :file:`.config` file in the build directory.
      Changes are picked up immediately.

      .. note::
         While it is possible to edit the :file:`.config` file directly, you should use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| or a tool like menuconfig or guiconfig to update it.
         These tools present all available options and allow you to select the ones that you need.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application using menuconfig.
      For this purpose, run the following command when :ref:`programming_cmd`.

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`zephyr:menuconfig` in the Zephyr documentation for instructions on how to run menuconfig or guiconfig.
      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Jump to** field.

.. _configuration_permanent_change:

Permanent changes
-----------------

To configure your application and maintain the configuration after you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
This will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and the invisible options that are calculated from it.
   It does not adjust visible symbols that have already defaulted to a value even if this default calculation is supposed to be dependent on the changed setting.
   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with |nRFVSC|, you can use one of the following options:

      * Select an extra Kconfig fragment file when you `build an application <How to build an application_>`_.
      * Edit the Kconfig options using the nRF Kconfig GUI and save changes permanently to an existing or new :file:`prj.conf` file.

      See the `extension's documentation about Kconfig <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_ for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-config` for more information.

The :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.
The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs.
This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt.

.. _cmake_options:

Providing CMake options
***********************

You can provide additional options for building your application to the CMake process, which can be useful, for example, to switch between different build scenarios.
These options are specified when CMake is run, thus not during the actual build, but when configuring the build.

For information about what variables can be set and how to add these variables in your project, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with the |nRFVSC|, you can specify project-specific CMake options when you add the :term:`build configuration` for a new |NCS| project.
      See `How to build an application`_ in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-args` for more information.

.. _gs_modifying_build_types:
.. _modifying_build_types:

Configuring build types
***********************

.. build_types_overview_start

When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

The Partition Manager's :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>` can also be made dependent on the build type.
When the build type has been inferred, the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.

The :ref:`child image Kconfig configuration <ug_multi_image_permanent_changes>` can also be made dependent on the build type.
The child image Kconfig overlay file is named :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>.conf` instead of :file:`prj.conf`, but otherwise follows the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.

Alternatively, the child image Kconfig configuration file can be introduced as :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>/prj.conf` and follow the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.
For example, :file:`child_image/mcuboot/prj_release.conf` can be used to define ``release`` build type for ``mcuboot`` child image.

.. build_types_overview_end

The Devicetree configuration is not affected by the build type.

.. note::
    For an example of an application that is using build types, see the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application (:ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`) or the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application (:ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`).

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_start

      To select the build type in the |nRFVSC|:

      1. When `building an application <How to build an application_>`_ as described in the |nRFVSC| documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.
      #. In the **Add Build Configuration** screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.
      #. Fill in other configuration options, if applicable, and click :guilabel:`Build Configuration`.

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_end

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_start

      To select the build type when building the application from command line, specify the build type by adding the following parameter to the ``west build`` command:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

      For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` by running the following command in the project directory:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -d build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf

      The ``build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` parameter specifies the output directory for the build files.

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_end

Commit message:

doc: config_and_build: reorganize additions in NCS
Moved and expanded information in "Additions in the NCS" section
of the build and config overview page. Replaced includes with links
in some application readme files.
NCSDK-22324.

Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/config_and_build/modifying.rst, after:

.. _gs_modifying:
.. _modifying:

Modifying an application
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|application_sample_definition|

After programming and testing an application, you probably want to make some modifications to the application, for example, add your own files with additional functionality, change compilation options, or update the default configuration.

.. _modifying_files_compiler:

Adding files and changing compiler settings
*******************************************

The |NCS| build system is based on Zephyr, whose build system is based on `CMake <CMake documentation_>`_.
For an overview of the build system in the |NCS|, see :ref:`app_build_system`.
For information about how the build system works in Zephyr, see :ref:`zephyr:build_overview` and :ref:`zephyr:application` in the Zephyr documentation.

Updating CMakeLists.txt
=======================

The recommended method to update the :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file is to use the |nRFVSC| to maintain it.
You can also edit the file directly.

Editing CMakeLists.txt
======================

You can add source files to the ``app`` CMake target with the :c:func:`target_sources` function provided by CMake.

Pay attention to the following configuration options:

* If your application is complex, you can split it into subdirectories.
  These subdirectories can provide their own :file:`CMakeLists.txt` files.
* The build system searches for header files in include directories.
  Add additional include directories for your application with the :c:func:`target_include_directories` function provided by CMake.
  For example, if you want to include an :file:`inc` directory, the code would look like the following:

  .. code-block:: c

     target_include_directories(app PRIVATE inc)

See the `CMake documentation`_ and :ref:`zephyr:cmake-details` in the Zephyr documentation for more information about how to edit :file:`CMakeLists.txt`.

Advanced compiler settings
==========================

The application has full control over the build process.

Using Zephyr's configuration options is the standard way of controlling how the system is built.
These options can be found under Zephyr's menuconfig **Build and Link Features** > **Compiler Options**.
For example, to turn off optimizations, select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NO_OPTIMIZATIONS`.

Compiler options not controlled by the Zephyr build system can be controlled through the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_COMPILER_OPT` Kconfig option.

.. _configure_application:

Configuring your application
****************************

You might want to change the default options of the application for each of its :ref:`configuration systems <configuration_system_overview>`.
There are different ways of doing this, but not all will store your configuration permanently.

Changing the hardware configuration
===================================

To correctly edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files for your project, you need to be familiar with the :ref:`Devicetree language and syntax <zephyr:dt-guide>`.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      The |nRFVSC| offers several layers of `Devicetree integration <Devicetree support overview_>`_, ranging from summarizing devicetree settings in a menu and providing devicetree language support in the editor, to the Devicetree Visual Editor, a GUI tool for editing devicetree files.
      Follow the steps in `How to create devicetree files`_ and use one of the following options to edit the :file:`.dts` and :file:`.overlay` files:

      * `Devicetree Visual Editor <How to work with Devicetree Visual Editor_>`_
      * `Devicetree language support`_


Changing the software configuration
===================================

You can change the software-related configuration temporarily or permanently.
The temporary build files are deleted when you clean the build directory with the ``pristine`` target (see Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:application_rebuild` for more information).

.. _configuration_temporary_change:

Temporary changes
-----------------

When building your application, the different :file:`.config`, :file:`*_defconfig` files and the :file:`prj.conf` file are merged together and then processed by Kconfig.
The resulting configuration is written to the :file:`zephyr/.config` file in your :file:`build` directory.
This means that this file is available when building the application until you clean the build directory pristinely.

The documentation for each :ref:`configuration option <configuration_options>` lists the menu path where the option can be found.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      Use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| to select the desired options.
      The GUI organizes the Kconfig options in a hierarchical list and lets you view and manage your selection.

      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Search modules** field.
      Read the `Configuring with nRF Kconfig`_ page in the |nRFVSC| documentation for more information.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application in the |nRFVSC| using menuconfig.
      Open the **More actions..** menu next to `Kconfig action in the Actions View`_ to start menuconfig in the extension.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      To quickly test different configuration options, or to build your application in different variants, you can update the :file:`.config` file in the build directory.
      Changes are picked up immediately.

      .. note::
         While it is possible to edit the :file:`.config` file directly, you should use the nRF Kconfig GUI in the |nRFVSC| or a tool like menuconfig or guiconfig to update it.
         These tools present all available options and allow you to select the ones that you need.

      Alternatively, you can configure your application using menuconfig.
      For this purpose, run the following command when :ref:`programming_cmd`.

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -t menuconfig

      See :ref:`zephyr:menuconfig` in the Zephyr documentation for instructions on how to run menuconfig or guiconfig.
      To locate a specific configuration option, use the **Jump to** field.

.. _configuration_permanent_change:

Permanent changes
-----------------

To configure your application and maintain the configuration after you clean the build directory pristinely, you need to specify the configuration in one of the permanent configuration files.
This will be either the default :file:`prj.conf` file of the application or an extra Kconfig fragment.
In these files, you can specify different values for configuration options that are defined by a library or board, and you can add configuration options that are specific to your application.

See :ref:`zephyr:setting_configuration_values` in the Zephyr documentation for information on how to change the configuration permanently.

.. tip::
   Reconfiguring through menuconfig only changes the specific setting and the invisible options that are calculated from it.
   It does not adjust visible symbols that have already defaulted to a value even if this default calculation is supposed to be dependent on the changed setting.
   This may result in a bloated configuration compared to changing the setting directly in :file:`prj.conf`.
   See the section Stuck symbols in menuconfig and guiconfig on the :ref:`kconfig_tips_and_tricks` in the Zephyr documentation for more information.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with |nRFVSC|, you can use one of the following options:

      * Select an extra Kconfig fragment file when you `build an application <How to build an application_>`_.
      * Edit the Kconfig options using the nRF Kconfig GUI and save changes permanently to an existing or new :file:`prj.conf` file.

      See the `extension's documentation about Kconfig <Configuring with nRF Kconfig_>`_ for more information.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-config` for more information.

The :file:`prj.conf` file is read when you open a project.
The file will be reloaded when CMake re-runs.
This will happen automatically when the application is rebuilt.

.. _cmake_options:

Providing CMake options
***********************

You can provide additional options for building your application to the CMake process, which can be useful, for example, to switch between different build scenarios.
These options are specified when CMake is run, thus not during the actual build, but when configuring the build.

For information about what variables can be set and how to add these variables in your project, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      If you work with the |nRFVSC|, you can specify project-specific CMake options when you add the :term:`build configuration` for a new |NCS| project.
      See `How to build an application`_ in the |nRFVSC| documentation.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      If you work on the command line, pass the additional options to the ``west build`` command.
      The options must be added after a ``--`` at the end of the command.
      See :ref:`zephyr:west-building-cmake-args` for more information.

.. _gs_modifying_build_types:
.. _modifying_build_types:

Configuring build types
***********************

.. build_types_overview_start

When the ``CONF_FILE`` variable contains a single file and this file follows the naming pattern :file:`prj_<buildtype>.conf`, then the build type will be inferred to be *<buildtype>*.
The build type cannot be set explicitly.
The *<buildtype>* can be any string, but it is common to use ``release`` and ``debug``.

For information about how to set variables, see :ref:`zephyr:important-build-vars` in the Zephyr documentation.

The following software components can be made dependent on the build type:

* The Partition Manager's :ref:`static configuration <ug_pm_static>`.
  When the build type has been inferred, the file :file:`pm_static_<buildtype>.yml` will have precedence over :file:`pm_static.yml`.
* The :ref:`child image Kconfig configuration <ug_multi_image_permanent_changes>`.
  The child image Kconfig overlay file is named :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>.conf` instead of :file:`prj.conf`, but otherwise follows the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.

  Alternatively, the child image Kconfig configuration file can be introduced as :file:`child_image/<child_image_name>/prj.conf` and follow the same pattern as the parent Kconfig.
  For example, :file:`child_image/mcuboot/prj_release.conf` can be used to define ``release`` build type for ``mcuboot`` child image.

.. build_types_overview_end

The Devicetree configuration is not affected by the build type.

.. note::
    For an example of an application that is using build types, see the :ref:`nrf_desktop` application (:ref:`nrf_desktop_requirements_build_types`) or the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application (:ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app_requirements_build_types`).

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_start

      To select the build type in the |nRFVSC|:

      1. When `building an application <How to build an application_>`_ as described in the |nRFVSC| documentation, follow the steps for setting up the build configuration.
      #. In the **Add Build Configuration** screen, select the desired :file:`.conf` file from the :guilabel:`Configuration` drop-down menu.
      #. Fill in other configuration options, if applicable, and click :guilabel:`Build Configuration`.

      .. build_types_selection_vsc_end

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_start

      To select the build type when building the application from command line, specify the build type by adding the following parameter to the ``west build`` command:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_\ *selected_build_type*\.conf

      For example, you can replace the *selected_build_type* variable to build the ``release`` firmware for ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` by running the following command in the project directory:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -d build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONF_FILE=prj_release.conf

      The ``build_nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` parameter specifies the output directory for the build files.

      .. build_types_selection_cmd_end

If the selected board does not support the selected build type, the build is interrupted.
For example, for the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application, if the ``nus`` build type is not supported by the selected board, the following notification appears:

.. code-block:: console

   Configuration file for build type ``nus`` is missing.
