doc/nrf/libraries/bluetooth_services/services/nus.rst, before:

.. _nus_service_readme:

Nordic UART Service (NUS)
#########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® LE GATT Nordic UART Service is a custom service that receives and writes data and serves as a bridge to the UART interface.

The NUS Service is used in the :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample.
It is also included with the Thingy:91 :ref:`connectivity_bridge`, but is disabled by default.

Service UUID
************

The 128-bit vendor-specific service UUID is 6E400001-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E  (16-bit offset: 0x0001).

Characteristics
***************

This service has two characteristics.

RX Characteristic (6E400002-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E)
========================================================

Write or Write Without Response
   Write data to the RX Characteristic to send it on to the UART interface.

TX Characteristic (6E400003-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E)
========================================================

Notify
   Enable notifications for the TX Characteristic to receive data from the application.
   The application transmits all data that is received over UART as notifications.


API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`include/bluetooth/services/nus.h`
| Source file: :file:`subsys/bluetooth/services/nus.c`

.. doxygengroup:: bt_nus
   :project: nrf
   :members:

Commit message:

samples: matter: Introduce to Matter NUS service
Matter NUS service lets you integrate an additional
Bluetooth LE service with any Matter application.

Thanks to this solution, you can declare commands
specific to a Matter sample and use them to control
the device remotely through Bluetooth LE.

Connection to the device is secure and requires
providing a random-generated passcode (debug build)
or a predefined passcode (relase build).

Signed-off-by: Arkadiusz Balys <arkadiusz.balys@nordicsemi.no>
Signed-off-by: Grzegorz Ferenc <Grzegorz.Ferenc@nordicsemi.no>

doc/nrf/libraries/bluetooth_services/services/nus.rst, after:

.. _nus_service_readme:

Nordic UART Service (NUS)
#########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® LE GATT Nordic UART Service is a custom service that receives and writes data and serves as a bridge to the UART interface.

The NUS Service is used in the :ref:`peripheral_uart` sample.
It is also included with the Thingy:91 :ref:`connectivity_bridge`, but is disabled by default, and with the :ref:`Matter door lock sample <matter_lock_sample>`, as an optional feature that extends the Bluetooth LE connectivity.

Service UUID
************

The 128-bit vendor-specific service UUID is 6E400001-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E  (16-bit offset: 0x0001).

Characteristics
***************

This service has two characteristics.

RX Characteristic (6E400002-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E)
========================================================

Write or Write Without Response
   Write data to the RX Characteristic to send it on to the UART interface.

TX Characteristic (6E400003-B5A3-F393-E0A9-E50E24DCCA9E)
========================================================

Notify
   Enable notifications for the TX Characteristic to receive data from the application.
   The application transmits all data that is received over UART as notifications.


API documentation
*****************

| Header file: :file:`include/bluetooth/services/nus.h`
| Source file: :file:`subsys/bluetooth/services/nus.c`

.. doxygengroup:: bt_nus
   :project: nrf
   :members:
